Risk Management in Technology

36 of 80

14

External Party Assurance

S

14.1

A financial institution shall appoint a technically competent external service
provider to carry out a production data centre resilience and risk assessment
(DCRA). The assessment must consider all major risks and determine the
current level of resilience of the production data centre. A financial institution
must ensure the assessment is conducted at least once every three years or
when there is a material change in the data centre infrastructure, whichever is
earlier. The assessment shall, at a minimum, include a consideration of
whether the requirements in paragraphs 10.24 to 10.28 have been adhered
to. For data centres managed by third party service providers, a financial
institution shall only rely on independent third party assurance reports
provided such reliance is consistent with the financial institution's risk appetite
and tolerance, and the independent assurance has considered similar risks
and meets the requirements in this paragraph for conducting the DCRA. The
designated board-level committee specified in paragraph 8.3 must deliberate
the outcome of the assessment.

S

14.2

A financial institution shall appoint a technically competent external service
provider to carry out regular network resilience and risk assessments (NRA)
and set proportionate controls aligned with its risk appetite. The assessment
must be conducted at least once in three years or whenever there is a material
change in the network design, whichever is earlier. The assessment must
consider all major risks and determine the current level of resilience. This shall
include an assessment of the financial institution's adherence to the
requirements in paragraphs 10.36 to 10.43. The designated board-level
committee specified in paragraph 8.3 must deliberate the outcome of the
assessment.

15

Security Awareness and Education

S

15.1

A financial institution must provide adequate and regular technology and
cybersecurity awareness education for all staff in undertaking their respective
roles and measure the effectiveness of its education and awareness
programs. This cybersecurity awareness education must be conducted at
least annually and must reflect the evolving cyber threat landscape and
emerging risks. Where appropriate, the financial institution shall also include
its third party service providers in their relevant training as outlined in
paragraph 10.48(i).

S

15.2

A financial institution must provide adequate and continuous training for staff
involved in technology operations, cybersecurity and risk management in
order to ensure that the staff are competent and suitably certified to effectively
perform their roles and responsibilities.

S

15.3

A financial institution must provide its board members with regular training and
information on technology developments to enable the board to effectively
discharge its oversight role.

Issued on: 28 November 2025
