Risk Management in Technology

78 of 80

Appendix 11 Fraud Detection Standards
A financial institution is required to adhere to the specified requirements, which include
carrying out financial transactions conducted via digital services for retail customer.
While compliance with the minimum standards is essential, a financial institution is
encouraged to exceed these standards to stay ahead of emerging threat. The financial
institution shall continuously upgrade and refine their fraud detection capability to
ensure it remains robust against the anticipated level of threat.
1.

A financial institution must establish detailed and comprehensive risk profiles for
each customer as a reference point when performing fraud detection based on
behavioural analysis of the financial institution's customer and fraud profiles.
Examples of relevant factors to be considered may include:
(a) demographics information e.g. age, gender, race, occupation, salary,
language, etc;
(b) geographical information e.g. city, state, countries, IP address;
(c) historical transactional patterns e.g. monetary transfer amount, time of
transaction, velocity, new beneficiaries / favourite transfer; and
(d) behavioural patterns e.g. time taken to make transfer, typing speed, mouse
hovering pattern.

2.

A financial institution must be able to detect and block suspicious or fraudulent
transactions on a real-time basis based on individual customer risk profiles
established in accordance with paragraph 1 through the fraud risk analytics. At
minimum, the fraud risk analytics must include the parameters or indicators
outlined below:
(a) Access to or conduct of a deposit account by a customer for a period of time
following specific activities which could indicate elevated risk of identity theft
or fraud, such as:
i)
newly enrolled e-banking account;
ii)
activation of online banking access for existing customer;
iii)
registration of multi-factor authentication (MFA) method on a new
device;
iv)
increase in transaction limit;
v)
password reset;
vi)
change of personal information such as phone number, email, and
postal address;
vii)
registration of third party payee details (favourite accounts); and
viii) upliftment of fixed deposit accounts or linked investment / unit trust
accounts.
(b) Transaction patterns observed in a customer's account, which could indicate
elevated risk of identity theft or fraud, such as:
i)
high volume of debits in a short period to new beneficiaries within a
day or next few days following such activities as specified in 2(a).
ii)
sudden change in transaction patterns (e.g. increases in frequency
or cumulative value over a short period, or large withdrawals

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

iii)

iv)
v)

vi)

vii)
viii)

79 of 80

resulting in low account balance inconsistent with the customer's
normal transaction patterns);
activities that may be inconsistent with the customer's risk profile or
history (e.g. transaction time, high debits from a previously inactive
account);
large deposit made into a newly opened deposit account and
withdrawn in a short period (e.g. within a few days);
transactions initiated from an unusual geographical location (not the
customer's typical location) or consecutive transactions from
different locations within a short period of time;
transactions initiated from an account or device previously reported
for fraud by various sources of fraud intelligence (e.g. upon
investigation by any financial institution, report from customer or law
enforcement agencies, industry threat intel sharing, etc.);
transactions from an account previously inactive for a period of
time; and
transactions to suspected financial mules detected by the financial
institution or any other fraud repositories developed by the Bank,
the industry, or law enforcement agencies.

(c) Changes in a device fingerprint, such as the location, IP address, device
MAC, operating system and other device profile. This must include the ability
to detect and block attempts to defeat or bypass device fingerprinting
methodologies.
(d) Account takeover and identity fraud using advanced artificial intelligence
tools, techniques, and procedures to defeat or bypass the authentication
controls of digital services or contact centre.
(e) Higher risk scoring must be applied for vulnerable customers (e.g. senior
citizens, younger customers, previous victims of fraud, customers with lower
literacy on the safety of electronic banking or awareness level, etc).
(f) Changes in biometric credentials registered in a device, where biometric
technologies are solely used for financial transaction authentication
purposes. This includes the scenario where a mobile banking application
relies on the biometric verification function of the device, mobile operating
system, or a third party application.
3.

A financial institution must implement measures to promptly detect and terminate
hijacked sessions to prevent unauthorised access to customer accounts. The
financial institution shall notify customer on elevated cyber risk caused by the
presence of risky application (e.g. application downloaded outside official
distribution platforms or detected to contain security vulnerabilities).

4.

When customer' online banking access is restricted, a financial institution must
promptly notify customer with appropriate guidance to enable customer to restore
access to their account subject to robust verification. To mitigate privacy

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

80 of 80

concerns, the financial institution must seek consent from the customer prior to
effecting the customer device profiling.
5.

A financial institution must investigate suspicious transactions based on predetermined priority levels and conduct the necessary verification (such as callbacks or other effective methods) with the customer prior to releasing any flagged
transactions. To ensure acceptable customer experience, the financial institution
must notify the affected customer immediately upon the blocking of each
suspicious transaction (e.g. via SMS or secure app notification) and deploy
sufficient resources to contact the affected customer within 30 minutes of the
transaction, including during peak periods. The verification procedures must
consider and include ways to help detect circumstances where customer may be
responding under the influence or threat of fraudsters. The financial institution
must also establish a robust process to minimise risk in the event the customer
cannot be contacted due to their unavailability.

6.

A financial institution must ensure that its various touch points such as contact
centres and branches are easily accessible and sufficiently resourced to provide
customer with prompt advice or to connect customer with the fraud investigation
team, if necessary.

7.

A financial institution must continuously update its system to ensure fraud
detection rules remain effective to combat new fraud modus operandi via the
following:
(a) enhance its fraud detection rules promptly upon detection of new fraud
techniques that have evaded its fraud detection system. The enhancements
shall be timely upon being notified by its internal fraud team or upon receiving
such intelligence from external sources such as other financial institution,
industry group, public-private partnership and other intelligence sharing
platform; and
(b) review the effectiveness of its fraud detection parameters and thresholds in
a timely manner, taking into consideration recent typologies in relation to
fraudulent transactions and financial mule accounts, including new digital
fraud techniques and modus operandi in other jurisdictions.

8.

In order to effectively address the wide range of fraud alerts that can arise from
various fraud modus operandi and techniques, it is important to have clear and
detailed procedures for managing suspected fraud cases. Therefore, the financial
institution must develop a comprehensive fraud management playbook, as a
point of reference for the relevant staff to promptly identify, confirm, and respond
effectively to various scenarios. The playbook must be updated and validated at
least once a year, or more frequently if needed, to ensure it remains relevant in
the evolving fraud landscape. This includes reflecting insights from assessments
of confirmed fraud cases and lessons learnt from incidences in which the financial
institution was unable to detect the fraudulent activities or transactions.

Issued on: 28 November 2025
