Risk Management in Technology

63 of 80

Appendix 10 Key Risks and Control Measures for Cloud Services
This appendix provides additional guidance to financial institutions for the assessment
of common key risks and considerations of control measures when financial institutions
adopt public cloud for critical systems. The guidance is broadly applicable across
various cloud service models and financial institutions is expected to apply a risk-based
approach in implementing the guidance.
The guidance consists of two (2) parts:
•

•

Part A: Cloud governance – describes the considerations governing the cloud
usage policy, and technology skills capacity to implement cloud services
securely and effectively.
Part B: Cloud design and control – describes the considerations related to
designing robust cloud infrastructure and in operationalising the cloud
environment. This places emphasis on cloud architecture, cloud application
delivery model, high velocity software development, user access management,
data protection, key management, cloud backup and recovery, business
continuity management and cybersecurity management.

Part A: Cloud Governance
A financial institution should ensure robust cloud governance processes are
established prior to cloud adoption and are subject to on-going review and continuous
improvement. This should cover the following areas:
1. Cloud risk management
(a) The board of a financial institution is expected to promote and implement sound
governance principles throughout the cloud service lifecycle in line with the
financial institution's risk appetite to ensure safety and soundness of the
financial institution.
(b) The senior management of a financial institution is expected to develop and
implement a cloud risk management framework that integrates with existing
outsourcing risk management framework, technology risk management
framework (TRMF) and cyber resilience framework (CRF), for the board's
approval, proportionate to the materiality of cloud adoption in its business
strategy, to assist in the identification, monitoring and mitigating of risks arising
from cloud adoption.
(c) Common cloud service models45 are Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platformas-a-Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), wherein each
presents a different set of capabilities offered to the financial institution as the
cloud consumer, and hence a different set of shared responsibilities. In view of
this, the cloud risk management framework of the financial institution should:

45 Cloud service models consist of SaaS, PaaS and IaaS. Refer the Special Publication 800-145 on

Definition of Cloud Computing issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S.
Department of Commerce.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

64 of 80

i) be an integral part of the financial institution's enterprise risk management
framework (ERM);
ii) be tailored to the cloud service models, both currently in use or being
considered for use; and
iii) specify the scope of the financial institution's responsibility under each
shared responsibility model, as the associated risks may vary.
(d) A financial institution is responsible for the protection of data stored in cloud
irrespective of cloud service models and the cloud service providers. Therefore,
the financial institution's understanding of the specific details of the cloud
arrangement, particularly what is or is not specified in the terms of the contract
with the cloud service providers is essential.
(e) Regardless of the cloud arrangement with cloud service providers, the onus
remains on the financial institution to satisfy the Bank that it is protecting
customer information and ensuring service reliability.
(f) The use of cloud services may represent a paradigm shift in technology
operation management as compared to on-premises IT infrastructure. Business
processes may change and internal controls on compliance, business
continuity, information and data security may be overlooked due to the ease of
subscribing to cloud services. Therefore, the cloud risk management framework
should also clearly articulate the accountability of the financial institution's
board and senior management, and the process involved in approving and
managing cloud service usage, including the responsibility of key functions
across the enterprise in business, IT, finance, legal, compliance and audit, over
the lifecycle of cloud service adoption.
(g) As the cloud landscape rapidly evolves, a financial institution`s cloud risk
management framework should undergo periodic review (at least once every
three years to ensure its adequacy and effectiveness to manage new service
models over time), or immediately upon any major cybersecurity incidents
involving the cloud services.
2. Cloud usage policy
(a) The financial institution's senior management is expected to develop and
implement internal policies and procedures that articulate the criteria for
permitting or prohibiting the hosting of information assets on cloud services,
commensurate with the level of criticality of the information asset and the
capabilities of the financial institution to effectively manage the risks associated
with the cloud arrangement.
(b) A financial institution is expected to expand the scope of its current technology
assets inventory to include critical systems hosted on the cloud services, with
a clear assignment of ownership, and to be updated upon deployment and
changes of IT assets to facilitate timely recalibration of cybersecurity posture in
tandem with an evolving threat landscape. Having visibility on the latest view of

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

65 of 80

the technology asset would enable effective triaging, escalation and response
to information security incidents.
(c) A financial institution should regularly review and update the cloud usage policy
at least once every three years. However, where any material changes arise,
including but not limited to adoption of new cloud service deployment model, or
adoption of cloud service for IT systems with higher degree of criticality, the
financial institution should review and update its cloud usage policy
immediately.
3. Due diligence
Due diligence on the prospective cloud service providers should be risk-based and
conducted to a level of scrutiny that is commensurate with the criticality of the
information and technology assets to be hosted on the cloud in compliance with
relevant requirements and guidance as stipulated in the Third Party Service Provider
Management section of this policy document and paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 in the
Bank's Outsourcing policy document (Outsourcing process and management of risks,
Outsourcing outside Malaysia, Outsourcing involving cloud services).46
4. Access to cloud service providers' certifications
A financial institution should review their cloud service providers' certifications prior to
entering into any cloud arrangement or contract with such cloud service providers. At
a minimum, a financial institution should:
(a) Seek assurance that the cloud service provider continues to be compliant with
relevant legal, or regulatory requirements as well as contractual obligations and
assess the cloud service provider's action plans for mitigating any noncompliance; and
(b) Obtain and refer to credible independent external party reports of the cloud
platforms when conducting risk assessments. The financial institution's risk
assessment should address all the requirements and guidance as stipulated in
the Cloud Services section of this policy document and paragraph 11 of the
Bank's policy document on Outsourcing which sets out provisions on
outsourcing involving cloud services.
5. Contract management
A financial institution should set out clearly and where relevant, measurable,
contractually agreed terms and parameters on the information security and operational
standards expected of the cloud service providers. Such contract terms and
parameters should be aligned with the financial institution's business strategy,
information security policies and regulatory requirements.

46 Or the relevant paragraphs in the policy documents applicable for eligible e-money issuer, non-bank

registered merchant acquirer, intermediary remittance institution and operator of designated payment
system.
Issued on: 28 November 2025
