Risk Management in Technology

50 of 80

Appendix 5 Control Measures on Cybersecurity
A financial institution must adopt robust control measures to enhance its network
resilience against cyber threats.
Part A: Network Security
1.

A financial institution must ensure technology networks are segregated into
multiple zones according to threat profile. Each zone shall be adequately
protected by various security devices including but not limited to firewall and
Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). This must include network for delivery of
digital services and wireless networks as well.

2.

A financial institution must ensure security controls for server-to-server external
network connections include the following:
(a) use PKI-based authentication method or equivalent alternatives;
(b) use of secure tunnels such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Virtual
Private Network (VPN) IPSec; and
(c) deploying staging servers with adequate perimeter defences and protection
such as firewall, IPS and antivirus.

3.

A financial institution must ensure security controls for remote access to server
include the following:
(a) restrict access to only hardened and locked down end-point devices;
(b) use secure tunnels such as TLS and VPN IPSec;
(c) deploy 'gateway' server with adequate perimeter defences and protection
such as firewall, IPS and antivirus;
(d) close relevant ports immediately upon expiry of remote access; and
(e) implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all remote access sessions.

4.

A financial institution must ensure overall security controls are implemented
including the following:
(a) dedicated firewalls at all critical segments. All external-facing firewalls must
be deployed on High Availability (HA) configuration and "fail-close" mode
activated;
(b) IPS at all critical network segments with the capability to inspect and monitor
encrypted network traffic;
(c) web and email filtering systems such as web-application firewalls, webproxy, URL filtering, sandboxing features, spam filter and anti-spoofing
controls;
(d) end-point protection solution to detect and remove security threats such as
malware;
(e) enforce full hard disk encryption for all endpoints and systems;
(f) solution to mitigate advanced persistent threats including zero-day and
signatureless malware; and
(g) capture the full network packets to rebuild relevant network sessions to aid
forensics in the event of incidents.

5.

A financial institution must synchronise and protect the Network Time Protocol
(NTP) server against tampering.

6.

A financial institution must ensure its technology systems and infrastructure,
including critical systems outsourced to or hosted by third party service providers,

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

51 of 80

are adequately protected against all types of Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
attacks (including Domain Name Service (DNS) based, volumetric, protocol and
application layer attacks) through the following measures:
(a)
(b)

(c)

subscribing to DDoS mitigation services, which include automatic 'clean
pipe' services to filter and divert any potential malicious traffic away from
the network bandwidth; and
regularly assessing the capability of the provider to expand network
bandwidth on-demand including upstream provider capability, adequacy of
the provider's incident response plan and its responsiveness to an attack;
and
implementing geolocation controls based on customer profile location, trend
or behaviours, in order to restrict access from unauthorised regions and
reduce exposure to malicious traffic.

Part B: Data Security
1.

A financial institution shall ensure that all data-at-rest of Personal Identifiable
Information (PII) and transaction data are securely protected and rendered
unreadable to unauthorised access through the implementation of robust
encryption mechanisms or equivalent capabilities.

2.

A financial institution must design internal control procedures and implement
appropriate technology in all applications and access points to enforce Data Loss
Prevention (DLP) policies and trigger any policy violations. The technology
deployed must cover the following:
(a) data in-use – data being processed by IT resources;
(b) data in-motion – data being transmitted on the network; and
(c) data at-rest – data stored in storage mediums such as servers, backup
media and databases.

3.

A financial institution must implement appropriate policies for the removal of data
on technology equipment, mobile devices or storage media to prevent
unauthorised access to data.

4.

A financial institution must establish a clear DLP strategy and processes in order
to ensure that proprietary and customer and counterparty information is identified,
classified and secured. At a minimum, a financial institution must (a) ensure that data owners are accountable and responsible for identifying and
appropriately classifying data;
(b) undertake a data discovery process prior to the development of a data
classification scheme and data inventory; and
(c) ensure that data accessible by third parties is clearly identified and policies
must be implemented to safeguard and control third party access. This
includes adequate contractual agreements to protect the interests of the
financial institution and its customers.

5.

A financial institution must ensure adequate security controls are in place to
safeguard against customer information breach (CIB)44, which include:

44 This is also applicable to the financial institution intermediaries as well as their third party service

providers.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
(a)

(b)
(c)
(d)

52 of 80

conducting continuous review to ensure that CIB does not occur in the IT
environments of the financial institution, its intermediaries, or third party
service providers. The financial institution shall also incorporate scanning
or screening of customer information into the scope of periodic security
assessments (e.g. penetration testing, red teaming, or other security
validation exercises) to detect accidental exposure of customer information
on financial institution's systems;
enhancing cybersecurity operations to promptly detect and strengthen the
safeguards against CIB;
ensure that the scope of financial institutions' internal audit reviews
encompasses the management and security controls pertaining to CIB; and
conduct a thorough investigation to identify the technical root cause(s) of all
CIBs with appropriate action and consequence management to mitigate
recurrence.

Part C: Security Operations Centre (SOC)
1. A financial institution must ensure its SOC, has adequate capabilities for
proactive monitoring of its technology security posture. This shall enable the
financial institution to detect anomalous user or network activities, flag potential
breaches and establish the appropriate response supported by skilled
resources based on the level of complexity of the alerts. The outcome of the
SOC activities shall also inform the financial institution's reviews of its
cybersecurity posture and strategy.
2. The SOC must be able to perform the following functions:
(a) adequate log collection and the implementation of an event correlation
engine with parameter-driven use cases such as Security Information and
Event Management (SIEM);
(b) incident coordination and response;
(c) vulnerability management;
(d) threat hunting;
(e) remediation functions including the ability to perform forensic artifact
handling, malware and implant analysis;
(f) provision of situational awareness to detect adversaries and threats
including threat intelligence analysis and operations and monitoring
Indicators of Compromise (IoCs). This includes advanced behavioural
analysis to detect signature-less and file-less malware and to identify
anomalies that may pose security threats including at endpoints and
network layers; and
(g) has a well-documented and standardized playbook that covers common
and plausible cyber threat scenarios, such as ransomware attacks.
3. A financial institution must ensure that the SOC provides monthly threat
assessment report, which shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(a) trends and statistics of cyber events and incidents categorised by type of
attacks, target and source IP addresses, location of data centres and
criticality of applications; and
(b) intelligence on emerging and potential threats including Tactics, Techniques
and Procedures (TTP).
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

53 of 80

4. A financial institution must subscribe to reputable threat intelligence services to
identify emerging cyber threats, uncover new cyber-attack techniques and
support the implementation of countermeasures.
5. A financial institution must ensure the following:
(a) the SOC is located in a physically secure environment with proper access
controls;
(b) the SOC operates on a 24x7 basis with disaster recovery capability to
ensure continuous availability; and
(c) the SOC has a holistic and end-to-end view of the financial institution's
infrastructure including internal and external facing perimeters.
Part D: Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Test (VAPT)
1. A financial institution must establish standard operating procedures (SOP) for
VAPT activities to continuously identify vulnerabilities, assess potential risks
and remediate the identified gaps. The SOP must outline the relevant control
measures including but not limited to ensuring that the activities of external
penetration testers are within the defined scope and are always subject to
continuous oversight, validating the event logs and ensuring data purging.
2. A financial institution must perform a quarterly vulnerability assessment of
external and internal network components that support all critical systems.
3. A financial institution must conduct annual intelligence-led penetration tests on
its internal and external network infrastructure, critical systems as well as digital
services including web, mobile and all external-facing applications. The test
shall reflect extreme but plausible cyber-attack scenarios based on emerging
and evolving threat scenarios. A financial institution must engage suitably
accredited penetration testers and service providers to perform this function.
4. In addition to the periodic testing, a financial institution must also conduct
intelligence-led penetration tests prior to introducing new systems for the new
products or services to ensure the IT infrastructure is not accidently exposed
due to unchecked network configuration.
5. A financial institution must ensure the outcome of the penetration testing
exercise is properly documented and escalated in a timely manner to senior
management to identify and monitor the implementation of relevant remedial
actions.
6. A financial institution must undertake an independent compromise assessment
on the technology infrastructure of its critical systems at least once every three
years and ensure the results of such assessments are escalated to senior
management and the board in a timely manner. The financial institution may
leverage their group-level cyber risk management functions to support this
requirement.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

54 of 80

Part E: Application Programming Interface (API) Security
1. A financial institution must ensure that the level of API security implemented is
commensurate with the potential risks involved. At a minimum, the financial
institution is required to implement the following measures to mitigate
cybersecurity risks associated with APIs:
(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)

implement and maintain a centralised API inventory. The inventory must
comprehensively encompass identification, classification and prioritisation
of all associated API connections and dependencies;
ensure availability of API service by designing APIs to be scalable for
handling high level of traffic and implementing measures to mitigate denial
of service attacks;
undertake secure coding practices during API development, which shall
include but not be limited to validating security of third party code and
libraries, implementing robust error handling, input validation and
appropriate security headers;
employ robust encryption standards and effective key management
controls;
deploy anti brute-force mechanisms, including but not limited to rate
limiting, account lockout, and others;
implement strong and robust authorisation and authentication protocols that
commensurate with the risks presented by the APIs;
consider utilizing an API gateway to manage access, authentication, and
authorization of the APIs;
conduct periodic security assessments on APIs, including penetration
testing and static / dynamic security testing;
continuous monitoring for APIs to ensure visibility into the utilization and
performance of the APIs, for prompt identification and detection of potential
suspicious activities; and
establish process to effectively revoke access token or API keys in the
event of a compromise.

Issued on: 28 November 2025
