Risk Management in Technology
PART C
16

37 of 80

REGULATORY PROCESS

Notification for Technology-Related Applications

Introduction or enhancement to digital services
S

16.1

A financial institution must notify the Bank in accordance with the
requirements in paragraphs 16.2 to 16.7 prior to introducing new digital
services or enhancement to existing digital services.

S

16.2

A financial institution offering digital services for the first time must undertake
measures specified under paragraph 16.4 and submit the following
information in the notification to the Bank:
(a) assessment on the risks identified and strategies to manage such risks.
This includes specific accountabilities, policies and controls to address
risks;
(b) security arrangements and controls;
(c) significant terms and conditions;
(d) client charter;
(e) privacy policy statement; and
(f) any outsourcing or website link arrangements, or strategic alliances or
partnerships with third parties that have been finalised.

S

16.3

For any enhancements to existing digital services which meet the criteria in
Appendix 6, a financial institution shall be subject to a simplified notification
requirement and submit the following information in the notification to the
Bank:
(a) description of the enhancements to the existing technologies; and
(b) risk assessment of the proposed enhancements, including the impact
and measures to mitigate identified risks.

S

16.4

For any enhancements to existing digital services which are not subject to
the simplified notification requirement under paragraph 16.3, a financial
institution is required to undertake the following measures prior to notifying
the Bank:
(a) engage an independent external party to provide assurance that the
financial institution has addressed the technology risks and security
controls associated with the digital services or any material
enhancement to the digital services. The format of the assurance shall
be as set out in Part A of Appendix 7; and
(b) provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
chairman of the board or designated board-level committee specified in
paragraph 8.3 of the financial institution's readiness to provide digital
services or implement any material enhancement to the digital services.
The format of the confirmation shall be as set out in Part B of Appendix
7.

S 16.5

A financial institution must ensure that the independent external party
providing the assurance is competent and has a good track record. The
assurance shall address the matters covered in, and comply with, Part C
and D of Appendix 7.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

38 of 80

S 16.6

A financial institution shall provide relevant documents for the Bank's review
when required by the Bank.

G 16.7

A financial institution may offer digital services or implement any
enhancement to the digital services immediately upon submission of the
notification under paragraph 16.1 and compliance with the requirements in
paragraphs 16.2 to 16.6.

17

Consultation and Notification related to Cloud Services and Emerging
Technology

S 17.1

A financial institution is required to consult the Bank prior to the first-time
adoption of a public cloud or emerging technology for critical systems. During
the consultation, the financial institution must demonstrate that specific risks
associated with the use of these technologies have been adequately
considered and addressed to the satisfaction of the Bank, in order to proceed
with the adoption of the public cloud for critical systems for the first time. The
financial institution shall undertake the following prior to consulting the Bank
on its adoption of public cloud for critical systems:
(a) conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of the proposed cloud
adoption or emerging technology, including the possible impact and
measures to address and mitigate the identified risks. For public cloud,
the assessment must follow the risk outlined in paragraph 10.50 and
Appendix 10. For emerging technology, it must follow the guideline in
Appendix 9. The financial institution shall also adopt the format of the
Risk Assessment Report as per Part A of Appendix 7;
(b) provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
chairman of the board or designated board-level committee specified in
paragraph 8.3 of the financial institution's readiness to adopt public
cloud or emerging technology for critical system. The format of the
confirmation shall be as set out in Part B of Appendix 7; and
(c) perform a third party pre-implementation review on public cloud or
emerging technology. This review shall encompass the areas set out in
Appendix 10 (for public cloud) or Appendix 9 (for emerging technology)
and Part C of Appendix 7 for higher-risk services, such as those
involving the processing or storage of customer information, or crossborder data transmission.

S 17.2

A financial institution shall notify the Bank on any subsequent adoption of a
public cloud or emerging technology for critical system, by submitting the
notification together with the necessary updates to all the information required
under paragraph 17.1, subject to the financial institution having complied with
the following requirements and included documentation and information to
demonstrate such compliance in the notification submitted to the Bank that
the financial institution:
(a) has consulted the Bank prior to adopting a public cloud or emerging
technology for critical systems for the first time in accordance with
paragraph 17.1, with no concerns raised by the Bank during the firsttime consultation;

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

39 of 80

(b) has enhanced the technology risk management framework to manage
cloud or emerging technology risks;
(c) has established independent assurance on the cloud risk management
framework or emerging technology risk management framework; and
(d) has provided assurance to the Bank that the incident response plans
are sufficient to cater for adverse or unexpected events.
G 17.3

For the avoidance of doubt, notification to the Bank under paragraph 17.2 is
not required for any enhancement to existing cloud adoption and emerging
technology adoption that does not materially alter the prior assessments and
representations made by a financial institution to the Bank.

S 17.4

The Bank may at its discretion direct a financial institution to consult the Bank
under paragraph 17.1, notify the Bank under paragraph 17.2 or observe any
of the guidance in Appendix 10 or Appendix 9 and to explain any deviations
from the guidance in Appendix 10 or Appendix 9, including for a non-critical
system or when the pre-requisites in the paragraphs 17.1 or 17.2 have not
been met. A financial institution must comply with such a directive promptly
and to the satisfaction of the Bank.

S 17.5

A financial institution must ensure the roadmap for adoption of cloud services
or emerging technology (for critical systems and non-critical systems) is
included in the annual outsourcing plan submitted to the Bank in adherence
with the requirements in the policy document on Outsourcing or IT Profile
reporting. The risk assessment as outlined in paragraph 10.50 for cloud
services or Appendix 9 for emerging technology must also be documented
and made available for the Bank's review as and when requested by the
Bank.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

40 of 80

18

Assessment and Gap Analysis

S

18.1

A financial institution must perform a gap analysis of existing practices in
managing technology risk against the requirements in this policy document
and highlight key implementation gaps. The financial institution must develop
an action plan with a clear timeline and key milestones to address the gaps
identified. The gap analysis and action plan must be submitted to the Bank
no later than 90 days after the issuance date of this policy document.
Financial institutions that have previously made a submission in accordance
with the equivalent provision in the previous version of this policy document
are required to maintain continuous compliance by identifying any new gaps
against the enhanced or revised requirements in the latest version of this
policy document and taking the necessary steps to address such gaps. The
updated annual assessment of its level of compliance must be made
available to the Bank upon request.

S

18.2

The self-assessment, gap analysis and action plan in paragraph 18.1 must
be submitted to Jabatan Penyeliaan Konglomerat Kewangan, Jabatan
Penyeliaan Perbankan, Jabatan Penyeliaan Insurans dan Takaful or Jabatan
Pemantauan Perkhidmatan Pembayaran, as the case may be.

Issued on: 28 November 2025
