Risk Management in Technology

49 of 80

Appendix 4 Control Measures for Mobile Applications and Devices
1.

A financial institution that offers digital services must be aware of the risks
associated with mobile applications. To mitigate these risks, a financial institution
shall continuously assess and perform risk assessment to ensure that the threats
associated with mobile applications is addressed.

2.

A financial institution must ensure digital services involving sensitive customer
and counterparty information offered via mobile devices are adequately secured.
This includes the following:
(a) design the mobile application to operate in a secure and tamper-proof
environment42 within the mobile devices to protect users against cyber
threats such as malware and unauthorised access;
(b) prohibit mobile applications from storing customer and counterparty
information used for authentication with the application server such as PIN
and passwords. Authentication and verification of unique key and PIN must
be centralised at the host;
(c) activation of the mobile application must be subject to robust authentication
by the financial institution;
(d) ensure secure provisioning and deprovisioning process of mobile
application in the customer's device;
(e) undertake proper due diligence processes to ensure the application
distribution platforms used to distribute the mobile application are reputable;
(f) ensure proper controls are in place to access, maintain and upload the
mobile application on application distribution platforms; and
(g) monitor the application distribution platforms to identify and address the
distribution of fake applications in a timely manner.

3.

A financial institution must also ensure the following measures are applied
specifically for applications running on mobile devices used by the financial
institution, appointed agents or intermediaries for the purpose of processing
customer and counterparty information:
(a) mobile device to be adequately hardened and secured;
(b) ensure the capability to automatically wipe data stored in the mobile devices
in the event the device is reported stolen or missing;
(c) comply with industry standards processed in card payments to mitigate risks
of unauthorised data access, identity theft and fraud43;
(d) enforce masking of sensitive customer and counterparty information when
displayed on mobile devices; and
(e) limit the storage of customer and counterparty information for soliciting
insurance and takaful businesses in mobile devices to 30 days.

42 Such as have not been compromised, jailbroken or rooted.
43 This includes risks associated with malwares that enable keystroke logging, PIN harvesting and other

malicious forms of customer and counterparty information downloading.
Issued on: 28 November 2025
