Risk Management in Technology

42 of 80

Appendix 2 Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SSTs)
Cash SST
Cash SSTs are computer terminals provided by banking institutions such as
Automated Teller Machine, Cash Deposit Machine and Cash Recycler Machine that
provide cash transactions such as cash withdrawals and deposits including in foreign
currencies.
Financial institutions must ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the Cash SST, which includes1.

enforcing full hard disk encryption;

2.

retaining cards or block access to Cash SST service when the following are
detected:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

exceed maximum PIN attempts;
invalid card authentication value;
cash SST card unable to eject;
"deactivated" card status;
inactive account status such as "Dormant" or "Deceased"; and
cards tagged as "Lost" or "Stolen";

3.

deploying antivirus solution for Cash SST, ensure full virus scanning on all Cash
SSTs is performed periodically and ensuring timely update of signatures;

4.

implementing a centralised management system to monitor and alert any
unauthorised activities on Cash SST such as unauthorised shutting-down of
operating system or deactivation of the white-listing programme;

5.

ensuring effective control over the Cash SST lock and key by using a unique and
non-duplicable key to open the Cash SST PC Core compartment as well as
ensure proper safekeeping and custody of the key;

6.

installing alarm system with triggering mechanism connected to a centralised
alert system to detect and alert bank's staff of any unauthorised opening or
tampering of the physical component of the Cash SST, particularly the access to
the Cash SST PC Core;

7.

securing physically the Cash SST PC Core by enclosing the central processing
unit (CPU) in a locked case;

8.

enforcing pairing authentication for key Cash SST components, particularly
between cash dispenser and Cash SST controller;

9.

enforcing Basic Input Output System (BIOS) lock-down which includes:
(a)
(b)
(c)

enabling unique password protection for accessing BIOS. The password
shall be held by financial institutions under strict control;
disabling external input device and port such as CD-ROM, floppy disk and
USB port. The Cash SST operating system can only be booted from the
internal hard disk; and
disabling automatic BIOS update;

10. ensuring proper configuration and hardening of the operating system and
application system, which includes:
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

43 of 80

blocking any wireless network connection such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi;
disabling Microsoft default program system (such as Notepad, Internet
browser, Windows shortcut, file download, file sharing and command
prompt);
disabling unnecessary services in the operating system such as the autoplay features;
concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;
enabling cache auto-deletion; and
disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions;

11. enforcing secure system parameter setting, which includes(a)
(b)
(c)

changing default passwords and other system security parameters setting
of the Cash SST;
using a unique system administrator password for all Cash SSTs; and
using lowest-level privileges for programmes and users' system access;

12. enforcing and monitoring of Cash SST end-point protection such as installing
white-listing programmes. The end-point protection programme, at a minimum,
shall ensure only authorised Cash SST system processes and libraries are
installed and executed;
13. enforcing strict control procedures over installation and maintenance of Cash
SST operating systems and application systems, which includes(a)
(b)
(c)

ensuring only authorised personnel have access to gold disk copy (master
copy of Cash SST installation software);
ensuring the gold disk copy is scanned for virus / malware prior to
installation into Cash SST; and
enforcing dual control for installation and maintenance of Cash SST
software; and

14. installing closed-circuit cameras and transaction triggered cameras at strategic
locations with adequate lighting in order to ensure high quality and clear closedcircuit television images of cardholder performing a transaction as well as any
suspicious activities.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

44 of 80

Non- Cash SST
Non-cash SSTs are computer terminals such as desktops, laptops, tablets, kiosks or
machines that provide non-cash transactions such as cheque deposits, balance
enquiries, fund transfers, card replacements, utilities bill payments or insurance
quotations.
Financial institutions must ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the self-service terminals, which includes1.

enforcing the use of lock and key on the computer terminal's CPU at all times;

2.

deploying closed-circuit television to monitor the usage of self-service terminals;

3.

disabling the use of all input devices (such as USB, CD and DVD), application
system (such as Notepad, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft PowerPoint) and file
download as well as command prompt on the kiosk;

4.

disabling browser scripting, pop-ups, ActiveX, Windows shortcut;

5.

concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;

6.

enabling cache auto-deletion;

7.

disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions; and

8.

restricting use of Internet browser i.e. only to be used to access the financial
institution's internet website.

Issued on: 28 November 2025
