Risk Management in Technology
12

32 of 80

Digital Services

Security of Digital Services
S

12.1

Securing digital services is an integral part of financial institution's risk
management. A financial institution must expand its CRF to implement robust
technology security controls in providing digital services which assure the
following:
(a) adopt and regularly assess the minimum-security controls for respective
delivery channels to ensure confidentiality and integrity of customer and
counterparty information and transactions. Refer to Appendices 2, 3, 4
and 11;
(b) proper authentication of users or devices and authorization of
transactions to mitigate impersonation and fraud risk. Refer the
minimum-security controls in Appendix 3; and
(c) strong physical control and logical control measures.

S

12.2

In the event that a financial institution has not yet implemented the digital
services security controls specified under paragraph 12.1 to 12.9, the
financial institution must(a)
(b)

be ready to provide documented explanation of how alternatives
measures or mitigations achieve equivalent or superior effectiveness;
and
assume the liability of any fraud that occurs due to the gaps arise from
the absence of the specified control.

Digital Fraud Management and Customer Awareness
S

12.3

The complex and fast evolving digital fraud requires financial institutions to be
vigilant against new fraud techniques and proactive in strengthening their
cyber defence for customer protection. In line with paragraphs 11.2 and 11.3,
a financial institution must enhance its CRF as follows:
(a) expand the scope of identification of cybersecurity threats and
countermeasures to include customers' mobile devices and access
points;
(b) adopt layered (defense-in-depth) security controls to protect the digital
service application deployed to customers' mobile devices and the
relevant banking data contained in it;
(c) perform continuous surveillance and monitoring to detect any
exploitation of the digital service application deployed to customers'
mobile devices and ensure the swift upgrade of security controls to
mitigate new vulnerabilities;
(d) establish clearly defined and effective incident handling procedures to
assist customers to contain the potential damage resulting from a
cybersecurity breach involving digital services;
(e) formalise operational arrangement to enable swift coordinated response
and rapid upgrade of countermeasures to defend against advanced
fraud tactics if a financial institution relies on multiple business functions;
(f) conduct regular review by senior management to ensure the
effectiveness of digital fraud management and define threshold for
escalation of countermeasures considering the actual impact to victims
of digital fraud and emerging fraud environment; and

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

33 of 80

(g) apprise the board on the outcome of management reviews to preserve
public confidence in the security of digital services and mitigate
reputation risk to the industry.
S

12.4

A financial institution must ensure that its fraud detection capabilities and
rules are updated in a timely manner upon detection of new fraud modus
operandi in order to prevent fraudulent transactions or account takeover using
stolen customer credentials. This must be supported by appropriate risk
analytics to improve the accuracy of fraud detection, that includes continuous
upgrade of fraud detection capabilities as specified in Appendix 11 on Fraud
Detection Standards.

S

12.5

A financial institution must mitigate any attendant risk arising from its delivery
of digital services. This shall include(a) adopt secure communication channel to mitigate risk of phishing.
Compensating controls shall be adopted when using communication
channel prone to phishing exploits37;
(b) all customers must be properly informed in advance of new controls to
ease adoption and minimise inconvenience; and
(c) practical ways for customers to verify the authenticity of calls made by
the financial institution or its appointed outsourced service providers.

S

12.6

A financial institution shall empower customers to mitigate digital fraud risks
where it is reasonably practical. This shall include offering customer
mechanisms to manage activation and de-activation of payment card38 for
card-not-present and overseas transactions. This shall not absolve the
financial institution from its liabilities, responsibilities and duty of care to
ensure the security of its digital services.

S

12.7

Consumer competency is essential to strengthening the security of digital
services. A financial institution must maintain continuous efforts to review and
enhance the effectiveness of its awareness programmes, ensuring customers
understand the risks of digital services fraud. This shall include(a) continuous and timely updates of practical information on how to identify
potential fraud, including specific information about new or common
modus operandi;
(b) clear explanation about new and existing security measures, such as
how to verify genuine e-banking websites and mobile applications;
(c) real-time alerts of possible risks when security measures are absent or
have not yet been implemented; and
(d) measures to further improve customer understanding and familiarisation
with fraud risks and controls, such as through interactive simulations of
security features etc.

S

12.8

A financial institution must provide convenient means for customers to report,
suspend and re-activate their account swiftly in the event of a suspected
fraud, where applicable. This shall require the financial institution to:

A financial institution must remove any clickable hyperlinks in short messaging service (SMS)
messages to customers and create awareness on this change to mitigate risk of phishing.
38 A financial institution must adhere to the relevant requirements of the policy documents, as issued by
the Bank, on Debit Card and Debit Card-I, and Credit Card and Credit Card-I in managing opt-in
requirement for card-not-present and overseas transactions.
37

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

34 of 80

(a) offer a secure self-service "kill switch" solution;
(b) ensure that its contact centre is adequately resourced and operating
effectively to provide prompt and adequate assistance to customers in
distress; and
(c) restore customer access to digital services within a reasonable
timeframe upon validation.
S

12.9

In addition to effective incident handling procedures, a financial institution
must adopt additional measures to mitigate risk to customers arising from any
incident involving potential fraud or compromise of customer data. This shall
include(a) heighten monitoring of affected customer accounts;
(b) notify affected customers and provide them with the necessary
information to apply mitigating measures and reduce the risk of fraud;
and
(c) revoke and re-issue affected user credentials or designated payment
instruments, where there is a potential risk of exploitation due to
compromised data or other fraudulent activity.

The rest of the page is intentionally left as blank

Issued on: 28 November 2025
