Risk Management in Technology

56 of 80

Appendix 7 Risk Assessment Report and Supervisory Expectations on External
Party
Part A: Risk Assessment Report
Section 1: Financial Institution
Name of Financial Institution
Mailing address
Type of digital services / cloud
service / emerging technology

New / Enhancement

Description of the digital services
/ cloud service / emerging
technology

Key contact personnel
Email address
Phone number
Section 2: External Service Provider
Name of company
SSM registration number
Mailing address
Engagement period
Key contact personnel
Email address
Phone number
Section 3: Detail of application
Overview of the application i.e.
business case, target segment of
demographic and end-user, etc.

(Please keep the response below 200 words.
Additional information may be provided as
supporting documents)

Describe the technology used to
support the product, service or
solution

(Please keep the response below 200 words.
Additional information may be provided as
supporting documents)

Section 4: Technology risk assessment
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
Technology risk assessment
shall provide assurance on the
effectiveness of technology risk
control and mitigation performed
by the financial institution in
meeting expectations outlined in
Part D of this Appendix and
paragraph 17.1 (for cloud
services and emerging
technology).
Section 5: Quality assurance
Overall recommendation

Section 6: Authorised signatory
Signature

Name
Designation
Date

Issued on: 28 November 2025

57 of 80

Risk Management in Technology

58 of 80

Part B: Format of Confirmation
Name of Financial Institution……………………………………………………………
As Chairman of the board of directors / designated board-level committee / CISO /
designated senior management officer * of [name of Financial Institution], I confirm that
–
1.
2.

3.

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

digital services / cloud service / emerging technology * is consistent with the
bank's / insurer's / takaful operator's * strategic and business plans;
the board of directors / senior management * understand and are ready to
assume the roles and responsibilities stated in Bank Negara Malaysia's policy
document on Risk Management in Technology and are also apprised of all
relevant provisions in the FSA, IFSA and DFIA and other relevant legislation,
guidelines and codes of conduct;
risk management process related to digital services / cloud service / emerging
technology * is subject to appropriate oversight by the board of directors and
senior management;
appropriate security measures to address digital services / cloud service /
emerging technology * security concerns are in place;
customer support services and education related to digital services / cloud
service / emerging technology * are in place;
performance monitoring of digital services / cloud service / emerging technology
* products, services, delivery channels and processes has been established;
digital services / cloud service / emerging technology * is included in the
contingency and business resumption plans;
there are adequate resources to support the offering of digital services / cloud
service / emerging technology * business; and
the systems, procedures, security measures, etc. relevant to sound operations
of digital services / cloud service / emerging technology * will constantly be
reviewed to keep up with the latest changes.

Signature : ………………………………
Name : …………………………………..
Date : ………………………..…………..
* (delete whichever is not applicable)

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

59 of 80

Requirements on External Party Assurance
Part C: Financial Institutions are required to provide an external assurance
1.

The assurance shall be conducted by an independent external service provider
(ESP) engaged by the financial institution.

2.

The independent ESP must understand the proposed services, the data flows,
system architecture, connectivity as well as its dependencies.

3.

The independent ESP shall review the comprehensiveness of the risk
assessment performed by the financial institution and validate the adequacy of
the control measures implemented or to be implemented.

4.

The Risk Assessment Report (as per Part D in Appendix 7) shall state among
others, the scope of review, risk assessment methodology, summary of findings
and remedial actions (if any).

5.

The Risk Assessment Report shall confirm there is no exception noted based on
the prescribed risk areas (Negative attestation).

6.

The financial institution shall provide the Risk Assessment Report accompanied
by the relevant documents.

Part D: Minimum controls to be assessed by the independent External Service
Provider, where applicable
1.

The independent ESP assessment of security requirements shall include the
following key areas:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

2.

access control;
physical and environmental security;
operations security;
communication security;
information security incident management; and
information security aspects of business continuity management.

For online transactions and services, a financial institution has implemented the
following:
(a) adequate measures to authenticate customer identity and ensure legitimate
transaction authorisation by the customer, including(i) measures to prevent session takeover or man-in-the-middle attacks;
(ii) internal controls must be in place to prevent compromise of relevant
internal systems / application / database;
(iii) where appropriate, apply multi-level authentication, out of band
protocol and real-time verification;
(iv) secure session handling functions and authentication databases; and
(v) ensure strong password and cryptographic implementation
(recognised algorithm with reasonable key strength);
(b)

adequate measures for transaction authentication that promotes nonrepudiation and establishes accountability(i) mechanism exists to ensure proof of origin, content as well as the
integrity of the message;
(ii) chosen channel to deliver transaction is secure;

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

60 of 80

(iii)

mechanism exists to alert the user on certain type of transactions for
further authentication; and
(iv) establish mutual authentication or appropriate use of digital
certification;
(c)

segregation of duties and access control privilege for systems, databases
and applications(i) implement dual control where applicable;
(ii) controls exist to detect and prevent unauthorised access to relevant
resources / devices;
(iii) authorisation database must be tamper-resistant; and
(iv) periodic review of privileged users;

(d)

adequate measures to protect data integrity of transactions and information:
(i) implementation of end-to-end encryption for external communication;
(ii) implementation of multi-layer network security and devices;
(iii) absence of single point of failures in network architecture;
(iv) conduct network security assessment / penetration test to identify
vulnerabilities;
(v) establish audit trail capabilities;
(vi) preserve the confidentiality of information;
(vii) use of stronger authentication for higher risk transactions; and
(viii) timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of the
nature of the transaction; and

(e)

adequate measures to mitigate associated risks of using electronic mobile
devices to perform online transactions, which shall include the following:
(i) application is running on secure mobile operating system versions;
(ii) application is not running on compromised devices;
(iii) conduct penetration test to identify and rectify potential vulnerability;
(iv) secure end-to-end communication between the device and host;
(v) sensitive information is not stored on mobile devices;
(vi) user is notified of successful transactions;
(vii) user is notified of suspicious transactions;
(viii) continuous monitoring and takedown of fake applications in
application distribution platforms;
(ix) controls over the uploading of application-to-application distribution
platforms;
(x) a unique code is generated per transaction; and
(xi) timely expiry of the transaction code.

Issued on: 28 November 2025
