Risk Management in Technology

45 of 80

Appendix 3 Control Measures for Digital Services
1.

A financial institution must ensure the adequacy of security controls implemented
for digital services, which include the following, where relevant:
(a)

ensure registration or enrolment of digital services is subject to robust
authentication and verification;

(b)

ensure transactions are performed over secured channels such as the
latest version of Transport Layer Security (TLS);

(c)

ensure that both client and host application systems encrypt all confidential
information prior to transmission over the network;

(d)

implement strong mutual authentication between the users' end-point
devices and financial institutions' servers, such as the use of the latest
version of Extended Validation SSL certificate (EV SSL);

(e)

ensure secure user and session handling management;

(f)

ensure sufficient and relevant digital service logs are retained for
investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years;

(g)

put in place additional authentication protocols to enable customers to
identify the financial institution's genuine website such as deploying image
or word verification authentication or similar controls. The system shall
require the customer to acknowledge that the image or word is correct
before the password box is displayed to the customer;

(h)

ensure resilience against brute-force attacks39;

(i)

for new customers, the default transfer limit shall be set at a conservatively
low level (such as RM1,000 per day). However, customers shall be
provided with the option to change the limit via secure channels (e.g. online
with multi-factor authentication (MFA) or at branches); and

(j)

apply appropriate verification and cooling-off period for first time enrolment
of digital services or secure device, transaction limit increase or other
activities which deemed necessary.

39 A brute-force attack is a method used by attackers to gain unauthorised access to a system by

systematically trying possible combinations or attempting to guess passwords or encryption keys.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

46 of 80

2.

A financial institution must ensure technology used in identity proofing and
authentication methods are (a) secure, highly resistant to cyber threats40 affecting customer devices,
including but not limited to malware, phishing, unauthorised access and
data leakage;
(b) accurate, have a minimal false acceptance rate to ensure confidentiality,
integrity and non-repudiation of transactions across all authentication
methods, including biometrics, tokenized processes, and contactless
systems; and
(c) compliant with internationally recognised standards where available and
ensuring consistency and reliability in the security and performance of
digital services.

3.

A financial institution must strengthen security controls for registration and update
of mobile device and customer details (such as mobile number, email and postal
address) used for authentication of digital service transactions to prevent
fraudsters from initiating funds transfers using stolen credentials. This shall
include(a) ensure secure binding and unbinding processes for restricting that
authentication of digital service transactions by default to one mobile device
or secure device per account holder (or to designated devices in the case
of joint or business accounts), except when specifically requested by
customers who understand and accept the risks of dispensing with this
control;
(b) ensure all customers are immediately alerted upon detecting access to the
customer's account from a new device, or when customer details are
changed;
(c) ensure that the registration of new mobile phone number or replacement of
existing mobile phone number is only processed after applying robust
verification methods to confirm the authenticity of the customer;
(d) adopt efficient measures to promptly verify and assist customers who need
to change devices or update their personal details; and
(e) apply appropriate verification and cooling-off period for first time enrolment
of digital services or secure device and multiple successive high-volume
transactions or other abnormal transaction patterns. Transaction limit
increase must also be subject to appropriate verification.

4.

A financial institution must implement controls to authenticate devices and users,
authorise transactions, and support non-repudiation and accountability for
transactions performed via digital services. These measures must include, at a
minimum, the following:
(a) adopt MFA for financial and high-risk non-financial transactions. This
includes when registering an account as a "favourite" beneficiary and, for
all subsequent funds transfer to the favourite beneficiary;
(b) request users to verify details of the transaction prior to execution; and
(c) provide timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of the
nature of the transaction.

40 This includes but not limited to malware, phishing, transaction fraud or data leakage.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

47 of 80

5.

A financial institution must ensure the MFA solution used to authenticate financial
transactions are adequately secure and resistant to phishing attacks, which
includes the following:
(a) activation of MFA must be subject to robust verification by the financial
institution;
(b) timely notification to customers of any activation of and changes to the MFA
solution via the customers' verified communication channel; and
(c) deployment of MFA technology and channels that are more secure than
unencrypted SMS.

6.

A financial institution must ensure that the security controls of MFA solutions
include adherence to the following requirements:
(a) the MFA solution is resistant to interception or manipulation by any third
party throughout the authentication process;
(b) payer / sender must be made aware and prompted to confirm details of the
identified beneficiary and amount of the transaction;
(c) authentication code must be initiated and generated locally by the payer /
sender using MFA;
(d) authentication code generated by payer / sender must be specific to the
confirmed identified beneficiary and amount;
(e) secure underlying technology must be established to ensure the
authentication code accepted by the financial institution corresponds to the
confirmed transaction details; and
(f) notification must be provided to the payer / sender of the transaction.

7.

Where a financial institution deploys OTP as an additional factor of
authentication, the following features must be implemented:
(a) OTP must be dynamic where it changes each time it is required and timebound;
(b) binding of the transaction details to the OTP generated by the device (e.g.
beneficiary account number, amount of transaction); and
(c) generation of the OTP from the customer's device and not from the bank's
server to mitigate the risk of manipulating OTP in the financial institution's
infrastructure and increase customer control over authentication process.

8.

Where a financial institution decides not to adopt MFA for financial transactions
below RM10,000 to customer's own account, the financial institution must
implement adequate safeguards to protect customer from digital fraud. This shall
include(a) SLA of T+3 calendar days (or less), T being the date of event reported by
customer, for reversal of any unauthorised first-party transactions reported
by customer;
(b) set appropriate limits on a per-transaction basis, and on a cumulative basis;
(c) provide a convenient means for customers to reduce the limits described in
paragraph (b) or to opt for MFA; and
(d) provide its customers with adequate notice of the safeguards set out in
paragraphs (a) to (c).

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
9.

48 of 80

A financial institution must offer to its customer a robust cryptographic key-based
authentication41 such as digital certificate or passwordless as an alternative to
existing password based authentication method to mitigate the risk of credential
of password being compromised or stolen. The enrolment of this method must
be subject to robust verification and resilient against cyber threats and fraud
techniques.

41 Cryptographic-key-based authentication is a method used to verify the identity of a user or system

through the use of cryptographic keys, typically involving a challenge-response handshake to prove
one's identity.
Issued on: 28 November 2025
