Risk Management in Technology (RMiT)

Applicable to:
1. Licensed banks
2. Licensed investment banks
3. Licensed Islamic banks
4. Licensed insurers including professional reinsurers
5. Licensed takaful operators including professional retakaful operators
6. Prescribed development financial institutions
7. Approved issuers of electronic money
8. Operator of a designated payment system
9. Registered merchant acquirers
10. Intermediary remittance institutions

Issued on: 28 November 2025

BNM/RH/PD 028-98

Risk Management in Technology

2 of 80

TABLE OF CONTENTS
PART A

OVERVIEW .........................................................................................................2

1

Introduction .........................................................................................................3

2

Applicability .........................................................................................................3

3

Legal provisions ..................................................................................................4

4

Effective date ......................................................................................................4

5

Interpretation.......................................................................................................4

6

Related legal instruments and policy documents.................................................6

7

Policy documents and circulars superseded .......................................................7

PART B

POLICY REQUIREMENTS .................................................................................8

8

Governance .........................................................................................................8

9

Technology Risk Management ........................................................................... 11

10

Technology Operations Management ................................................................ 13

11

Cybersecurity Management ............................................................................... 27

12

Digital Services .................................................................................................. 32

13

Technology Audits ............................................................................................. 35

14

External Party Assurance................................................................................... 36

15

Security Awareness and Education .................................................................... 36

16

Notification for Technology-Related Applications ............................................... 37

17

Consultation and Notification related to Cloud Services and Emerging
Technology........................................................................................................ 38

18

Assessment and Gap Analysis........................................................................... 40

APPENDICES ..................................................................................................................... 41
Appendix 1

Storage and Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media ....... 41

Appendix 2

Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SSTs) .............................. 42

Appendix 3

Control Measures for Digital Services .................................................... 45

Appendix 4

Control Measures for Mobile Applications and Devices .......................... 49

Appendix 5

Control Measures on Cybersecurity ....................................................... 50

Appendix 6

Criteria for Simplified Notification for IT Services Enhancements ........... 55

Appendix 7

Risk Assessment Report and Supervisory Expectations on
External Party ........................................................................................ 56

Appendix 8

IT and Cyber Risks Associated with Third Party Service Providers ........ 61

Appendix 9

Guidance on Emerging Technologies..................................................... 62

Appendix 10 Key Risks and Control Measures for Cloud Services ............................. 63
Appendix 11 Fraud Detection Standards .................................................................... 78

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
PART A

3 of 80

OVERVIEW

1

Introduction

1.1

With the prevalent use of technology in the provision of financial services,
financial institutions must(a) invest in the required expertise and risk controls to prevent operational
disruptions given the complexity of Information Technology (IT) systems;
(b) achieve the highest level of security to combat fast-changing digital
crimes for public confidence;
(c) maintain robust oversight to prevent transmission of risks with increased
third party interlinkages;
(d) build operational resilience against sophisticated and malicious cyber
threats amidst heightened cyber risks globally; and
(e) practice ethical and responsible use of technology for inclusive growth.

1.2

This policy document sets out the Bank’s policy objectives and minimum
requirements to improve financial institutions’ management of technology risk,
including cyber risk. In applying this policy document, a financial institution
shall have regard to the size and complexity of its operations, the level of
technology use and its external stress exposure. Accordingly, larger and more
complex financial institutions, or those with a high degree of digitalisation and
linkages with third parties, are required to adopt more robust risk controls that
commensurate with the increased technology risk exposure of the institution.

1.3

Enforcement or supervisory actions can be taken against the financial
institutions including its directors, officers and employees for any noncompliance with any provision marked as “S” in Part B of this policy document.

1.4

Where the Bank considers that a financial institution’s technology risk
management has material weaknesses which, if not promptly and effectively
addressed, might contribute to, or result in, non-compliance with this policy
document, the Bank may, among others(a) require an independent external review of the overall or specific areas of
the financial institution’s technology risk management;
(b) require the financial institution to develop and implement specific
remediation plan;
(c) require the financial institution to hold additional capital; or
(d) require the financial institution to take any other corrective action
necessary to rectify the weaknesses in a sustainable manner.

2

Applicability

2.1

Subject to paragraph 2.2, this policy document is applicable to all financial
institutions as defined in paragraph 5.2.

2.2

The following paragraphs and appendices are not applicable to certain financial
institutions identified below:
(a)

Part C (paragraphs 16 to 17) and Appendices 6 and 7 are not applicable
to(i)
operators of designated payment system;
(ii)
eligible e-money issuers;

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

(b)
(c)

4 of 80

(iii)
non-bank registered merchant acquirers; and
(iv)
intermediary remittance institutions; and
paragraphs 12.3 to 12.9 are not applicable to(i)
operators of designated payment system; and
(ii)
intermediary remittance institutions; and
paragraph 13.3 is not applicable to the following financial institutions,
provided they have not been designated as National Critical Information
Infrastructure (NCII) entities1:
(i)
eligible e-money issuers;
(ii)
non-bank registered merchant acquirers; and
(iii)
intermediary remittance institutions.

3

Legal provisions

3.1

The requirements in this policy document are specified pursuant to(a) sections 47(1), 47(2)(d) and 143(2) of the Financial Services Act 2013
(FSA);
(b) sections 57(1), 57(2)(d) and 155(2) of the Islamic Financial Services Act
2013 (IFSA);
(c) sections 41(1), 41(2)(b) and 116(1) of the Development Financial
Institutions Act 2002 (DFIA); and
(d) sections 34(2) and 74 of the Money Services Business Act 2011 (MSBA).

3.2

The guidance in this policy document is issued pursuant to section 266 of the
FSA, section 277 of the IFSA, section 126 of the DFIA and section 74 of the
MSBA.

4

Effective date

4.1

This policy document comes into effect on 28 November 2025 except where
otherwise stated explicitly in this policy document.

5

Interpretation

5.1

The terms and expressions used in this policy document shall have the same
meanings assigned to them in the FSA, IFSA, DFIA or MSBA, as the case may
be, unless otherwise defined in this policy document.

5.2

For purposes of this policy document“S” denotes a standard, an obligation, a requirement, specification, direction,
condition and any interpretative, supplemental and transitional provisions that
must be complied with. Non-compliance may result in enforcement action;
“G” denotes guidance which may consist of statements or information
intended to promote common understanding and advice or recommendations
that are encouraged to be adopted;

1 For clarity, this refers to financial institutions that have not been designated as NCII entities by BNM

under subsection 17(1) of the Cyber Security Act 2024, which came into effect on 26 August 2024.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

5 of 80

“affiliate” in relation to an entity, refers to any corporation that controls, is
controlled by, or is under common control with, the entity;
“board” refers to the board of directors of a financial institution, including any
committee carrying out any of the responsibilities of the board under this policy
document;
“critical system” refers to any application system that supports the provision
of critical banking, insurance, takaful, payment, investment or trading services,
where failure of the system has the potential to significantly impair the financial
institution’s provision of financial services to customers or counterparties,
business operations, financial position, reputation, or compliance with
applicable laws and regulatory requirements;
“customer and counterparty information” refers to any information relating
to the affairs or the account, of any customer or counterparty of a financial
institution in whatever form;
“cyber incident” refers to a cyber event that adversely affects the cyber
security of an information system or the information the system processes,
stores or transmits whether resulting from malicious activity or not;
“cyber resilience” refers to the ability of people, processes, IT systems,
applications, platforms or infrastructures to withstand adverse cyber events;
“digital services” refers to the provision of payment, remittance, banking,
Islamic banking, insurance or takaful services delivered to customers via
electronic channels and devices including Internet and mobile devices, selfservice and point-of-sale terminals;
“disruption” refers to an incident that causes degradation to the normal
performance of a business function that would affect a financial institution’s
ability to continue its operations and services to its customers;
“financial institution” refers to(a) a licensed person under the FSA and the IFSA (excluding branches of a
foreign professional reinsurer and a professional retakaful operator);
(b) a prescribed institution under the DFIA;
(c) an eligible e-money issuer as defined2 in the policy document on
Electronic Money issued on 31 January 20253;
(d) an operator of a designated payment system under the FSA and IFSA;
(e) a non-bank registered merchant acquirer as defined4 in the policy
document on Merchant Acquiring Services issued on 15 September
2 For ease of reference, an “eligible e-money issuer” is defined as an approved issuer of electronic

money with substantial market presence based on the criteria set out in Appendix 1 of the policy
document on Electronic Money or such other criteria as may be specified by the Bank from time to time.
3 Including any amendments or modifications made after the issuance date.
4 For ease of reference, a “non-bank registered merchant acquirer” refers to any person who is
registered pursuant to sections 17(1) and 18 of the FSA to provide merchant acquiring services and
fulfils the criteria under paragraph 2.1 of the policy document on Merchant Acquiring Services or such
other criteria as may be specified by the Bank from time to time but does not include a licensed bank,
licensed Islamic bank or prescribed institution.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

(f)

6 of 80

20215, with a market share of at least 5% of the total non-bank merchant
acquiring services transaction value or volume in Malaysia for a given
year; and
an intermediary remittance institution (IRI) as defined6 in the policy
document on Governance, Risk Management, and Operations for Money
Services Business (MSB) issued on 9 April 20257, with a market share of
at least 5% of total IRI transaction value or volume in Malaysia for a given
year;

“OTP or one-time password” refers to an alphanumeric or numeric code
represented by a minimum of 6 characters or digits which is valid only for single
use;
“senior management” refers to the Chief Executive Officer and senior
officers, who are employed by a financial institution or an affiliate of the
financial institution. This includes, at minimum, senior management roles listed
in Appendix 2 of policy document of Responsibility Mapping issued on 29
December 2023 as well as the relevant paragraphs on roles and
responsibilities in the policy documents8 on Electronic Money issued on 31
January 2025, Merchant Acquiring Services issued on 15 September 2021,
Payment System Operator issued on 22 December 2022, and Governance,
Risk Management, and Operations for Money Services Business (MSB)
issued on 9 April 2025;
“third party service provider” refers to any internal group affiliate or external
entity providing technology-related functions or services directly to enable or
support a function or service provided by the financial institution, or which
involves the transmission, processing, storage or handling of confidential
information pertaining to the financial institution or its customers. This includes
cloud computing software, platform and infrastructure service providers.
6

Related legal instruments and policy documents

6.1

This policy document must be read together with any relevant legal
instruments, policy documents, guidelines, circulars, and supplementary
documents issued by the Bank, including any amendments and reissuances
thereafter, in particular(a) Guidelines on Data Management and MIS Framework issued on 23
October 2008;
(b) Guidelines on Data Management and MIS Framework for Development
Financial Institutions issued on 5 November 2012;
(c) Policy Document on Risk Governance issued on 1 March 2013;
(d) Policy Document on Introduction of New Products issued on 7 March
2014;
(e) Policy Document on Compliance issued on 10 May 2016;

5 Including any amendments or modifications made after the issuance date.
6 For ease of reference, an “intermediary remittance institution or IRI” refers to an intermediary institution

that receives wire transfers on behalf of a sending remittance company, for onward transmission, to a
receiving party that will then disburse to the beneficiary of the wire transfer as may be specified by the
Bank from time to time.
7 Including any amendments or modifications made after the issuance date.
8 Including any amendments or modifications made after the issuance date for the referenced policy
documents.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

7 of 80

(f)
(g)

Policy Document on Operational Risk issued on 10 May 2016;
Policy Document on Debit Card and Debit Card-i issued on 2 December
2016;
(h) Policy Document on Credit Card and Credit Card-i issued on 2 July 2019;
(i) Policy Document on Outsourcing issued on 23 October 2019;
(j) Policy Document on Interoperable Credit Transfer Framework issued on
23 December 2019;
(k) Policy Document on Merchant Acquiring Services issued on 15
September 2021;
(l) Circular of Notification on Consolidated List of Requirements Relating to
Technology and Cyber Risk issued on 29 September 2022;
(m) Policy Document on Business Continuity Management issued on 19
December 2022;
(n) Policy Document on Responsibility Mapping issued on 29 December
2023;
(o) Industry letter on Updated 2023 Financial Stability Board Cyber Lexicon
issued on 28 February 2024;
(p) Policy Document on Fair Treatment of Financial Consumers issued on
27 March 2024;
(q) Specifications on Countermeasures to Combat E-Money Fraud issued
on 8 April 2024;
(r) Policy Document on Operational Risk Reporting issued on 10 April 2025;
and
(s) Management of Customer Information and Permitted Disclosures
(MCIPD) issued on 31 October 2025.
7
7.1

Policy documents and circulars superseded
This policy document supersedes the following policy documents, guidelines,
circulars and notifications:
(a) Guidelines on the Provision of Electronic Banking (e-banking) Services
by Financial Institutions, including for the provisions under paragraphs
21, 22 and 26 issued on 18 November 2019;
(b) Specifications on Measures to Combat Electronic Banking Fraud dated
23 August 2022;
(c) Measures to Combat Fraud Monetised via Internet Banking and Mobile
Banking dated 31 May 2022;
(d) Policy Document on Risk Management in Technology (RMiT) issued on
1 June 2023;
(e) Additional Guidance on Technology and Cyber Safeguards to Ensure the
Protection of Customer Information issued on 10 July 2023; and
(f) Specifications on Fraud Detection Standard dated 27 March 2024.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
PART B
8

8 of 80

POLICY REQUIREMENTS

Governance

Responsibilities of the Board of Directors
S

8.1

The board must establish and approve the technology risk appetite which is
aligned with the financial institution’s risk appetite statement. In doing so, the
board must(a) approve the corresponding risk tolerances for technology-related events
considering potential impact on business operations as well as its
customers;
(b) identify risk owner to ensure clear accountability and establish criteria
and approving authority for the acceptance of residual risks by the
institution;
(c) ensure key risk indicators are identified to monitor existing and emerging
risks against financial institution’s risk tolerance;
(d) ensure sufficiency and appropriate deployment of resources; and
(e) conduct review of the technology risk appetite at regular intervals with
sufficient deliberation to ensure such risk appetite remains relevant with
changing risk environment.

S

8.2

In discharging its oversight responsibility, the board must(a) approve and review the adequacy of the financial institution’s IT and
cybersecurity strategic plans to meet business objectives covering a
period of no less than three years;
(b) endorse and oversee the effective implementation of a sound and robust
technology risk management framework (TRMF) and cyber resilience
framework (CRF), as required to be developed under paragraphs 9.1
and 11.2, for the continuity of operations and delivery of financial
services;
(c) require senior management to continuously demonstrate that risk
assessments undertaken in relation to critical IT systems and use of
emerging technology are robust and comprehensive, supported with
adequate control measures and resources to mitigate IT and cyber risks
arising from the execution of IT strategic plans;
(d) ensure IT-related framework, policies and guidelines are reviewed at
least once every three years (unless otherwise stated in this policy
document) and apply a depth of review that is commensurate with the
complexity of the financial institution’s operations and changes in the
risk environment; and
(e) ensure risk management framework provide support to robust risk
assessments in relation to technology related applications submitted to
the Bank.

S

8.3

The board must designate a board-level committee9 which shall be
responsible for supporting the board in providing oversight over technologyrelated matters. The composition of the designated committee must include

9 The board of a financial institution may either designate an existing board committee or establish a

separate committee for this purpose. Where such a committee is separate from the Board Risk
Committee (BRC), there must be appropriate interface between this committee and the BRC on
technology risk-related matters to ensure effective oversight of all risks at the enterprise level.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

9 of 80

at least one member with technology experience and competencies.
S

8.4

To promote effective discussion at the board level amidst a rapidly evolving
technology and cyber risk landscape, the board must(a) obtain regular updates on technology risk and cyber threats;
(b) allocate sufficient time to discuss cyber risks, including the strategic,
reputational and liquidity risks and impact of operational disruption to
stakeholders which could arise from an extreme cyber incident. This
shall be supported by input from external experts where appropriate;
and
(c) participate in relevant cybersecurity awareness and training
programmes.

S

8.5

The board audit committee (BAC) shall be responsible for ensuring the
effectiveness of the internal technology audit function. This shall include
ensuring the adequate competence of the audit staff to perform technology
audits. The BAC shall review and ensure appropriate audit scope,
procedures and frequency of technology audits. The BAC shall also ensure
effective oversight over the prompt closure of corrective actions to address
technology control gaps.

Responsibilities of the senior management
S

8.6

The senior management shall bear primary responsibility for the day-to-day
management of technology risks including cyber risks. In fulfilling its
responsibilities, senior management must–
(a) implement board approved TRMF and CRF into specific policies and
procedures that are consistent with the approved risk appetite and risk
tolerance;
(b) ensure that the crisis management plan for service disruptions provides
for timely escalation of recovery action, taking into consideration the
impact on customers, such as:
(i) duration of disruption;
(ii) number of customers affected by a disruption; and
(iii) number and value of financial transaction impacted; and
(c) provide regular updates to the board on the status of key performance
indicators with pertinent information on the risk controls to facilitate
informed performance review.

S

8.7

The senior management must establish a cross-functional committee to
provide guidance on the financial institution’s technology plans and
operations. The members of the committee must include senior management
from both cyber and technology functions, as well as major business units.
The committee’s responsibilities shall include the following:
(a) oversee the formulation and effective implementation of the strategic
technology plan and associated technology policies and procedures;
(b) provide timely updates to the board on key technology matters10; and

10 Key technology matters include updates on critical systems’ performance, significant IT and cyber

incidents, management of technology obsolescence risk, status of patch deployment activities for critical
technology infrastructure, proposals for and progress of strategic technology projects, performance of
critical technology outsourcing activities, utilisation of the technology budget and competencies for
managing technology risks.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

10 of 80

(c) approve any deviation from technology-related policies after having
carefully considered a robust assessment of related risks. Material
deviations shall be reported to the board.

The rest of the page is intentionally left as blank

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
9

11 of 80

Technology Risk Management

Risk Management Framework
S

9.1

A financial institution must ensure that the TRMF is an integral part of the
financial institution’s enterprise risk management framework (ERM).

S

9.2

The TRMF must include the following:
(a) clear definition of technology risk;
(b) clear responsibilities assigned for the management of technology risk at
different levels and across functions, with appropriate governance and
reporting arrangements;
(c) the identification of technology risks to which the financial institution is
exposed, including risks from the adoption of new or emerging
technology (refer Appendix 9 on Guidance on Emerging Technologies);
(d) risk classification of all information assets / systems based on its
criticality;
(e) risk measurement and assessment approaches and methodologies;
(f) risk controls and mitigations;
(g) continuous monitoring to timely detect and address any material risks;
(h) effective information system to ensure the technology risk profile
remains accurate and up to date;
(i) identification of key resources and interdependencies (including critical
third party service providers and their connected parties11) which
support delivery of critical technology functions;
(j) undertake scenario analysis to strengthen capacity and readiness to
resume critical systems under severe conditions; and
(k) effective incident management policies and procedures to minimise the
impact of any service disruption on the financial institution and its
customers, by restoring the affected service or system to a secure and
stable state as quickly as possible.

S

9.3

A financial institution must establish an independent enterprise-wide
technology risk management function which is responsible for(a) implementing the TRMF and CRF;
(b) advising on critical technology projects and ensuring critical issues that
may have an impact on the financial institution’s risk tolerance are
adequately deliberated or escalated in a timely manner; and
(c) providing independent views to the board and senior management on
third party assessments12, where necessary.

11 Connected parties refers to Nth party as defined by Basel Committee on Banking Supervision on

principles for the sound management of third party risk.
12 Relevant third party assessments may include the Data Centre Resilience and Risk Assessment,
Network Resilience and Risk Assessment and independent assurance for introduction of new or
enhanced digital services.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

12 of 80

Designated Chief Information Security Officer
S

9.4

A financial institution must designate a Chief Information Security Officer13
(CISO) by whatever name called, to be responsible for the technology risk
management function of the financial institution. The financial institution must
ensure that the CISO has sufficient authority, independence and resources14.
The CISO shall(a) be independent from day-to-day technology operations;
(b) apprise board and senior management of current and emerging
technology risks which could potentially affect the financial institution’s
risk profile;
(c) have the requisite technical skills in emerging and core technologies
used by the institution, expertise and experience in audit, governance
and risk management, strategic planning and execution of IT and
cybersecurity programs, and third party risk management; and
(d) be appropriately certified.

S

9.5

The CISO shall be responsible for ensuring that the financial institution’s
information assets and technologies are adequately protected, which
includes(a) formulating appropriate policies for the effective implementation of
TRMF and CRF;
(b) enforcing compliance with these policies, frameworks and other
technology-related regulatory requirements; and
(c) advising senior management on technology risk and security matters,
including developments in the financial institution’s technology security
risk profile in relation to its business and operations.

13 In line with the role defined in Responsibility Mapping policy document dated 29 December 2023,

including any amendments or modifications made after the issuance date.
14 A financial institution’s CISO may take guidance from the expertise of a group-level CISO, in or outside
of Malaysia, and may also hold other roles and responsibilities provided these do not impair the CISO’s
independence or competence. Such designated CISO shall be accountable for and serve as the point
of contact with the Bank on the financial institution's technology-related matters, including managing
entity-specific risks, supporting prompt incident response and reporting to the financial institution’s
board.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
10

13 of 80

Technology Operations Management

Technology Project Management
S

10.1

A financial institution must establish appropriate governance requirements
commensurate with the risk and complexity15 of technology projects
undertaken. This shall include project oversight roles and responsibilities,
authority and reporting structures, and risk assessments throughout the
project life cycle.

S

10.2

The risk assessments shall identify and address the key risks arising from
the implementation of technology projects. These include the risks that could
threaten successful project implementation and the risks that a project failure
will lead to a broader impact on the financial institution's operational
capabilities. At a minimum, due regard shall be given to the following areas:
(a) the adequacy and competency of resources including those of the
vendor to effectively implement the project. This shall also take into
consideration the number, size and duration of significant technology
projects already undertaken concurrently by the financial institution;
(b) the complexity of systems to be implemented such as the use of
unproven or unfamiliar technology and the corresponding risks of
integrating the new technology into existing systems, managing multiple
vendor-proprietary technologies, large-scale data migration or cleansing
efforts and extensive system customisation;
(c) the adequacy and configuration of security controls throughout the
project life cycle to mitigate cybersecurity breaches or exposure of
confidential data;
(d) the comprehensiveness of the user requirement specifications to
mitigate risks from extensive changes in project scope or deficiencies in
meeting business needs;
(e) the robustness of system and user testing strategies to reduce risks of
undiscovered system faults and functionality errors;
(f) the appropriateness of system deployment and fallback strategies to
mitigate risks from prolonged system stability issues; and
(g) the adequacy of disaster recovery operational readiness following the
implementation of new or enhanced systems.

S

10.3

The board and senior management must receive and review timely reports
on the management of these risks on an ongoing basis throughout the
implementation of significant projects.

15 For example, large-scale integration projects or those involving critical systems must be subject to

more stringent project governance requirements such as more frequent reporting to the board and senior
management, more experienced project managers and sponsors, more frequent milestone reviews and
independent quality assurance at major project approval stages.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

14 of 80

System Development and Acquisition
S

10.4

A financial institution must establish a framework to guide the design,
planning, implementation, and governance of an enterprise technology
architecture. A technology architecture serves as a foundation on which
financial institutions plan and structure system development and acquisition
strategies to meet business goals. Thus, the financial institution must ensure
the framework carry out these functions(a) provides a comprehensive view of technology throughout the financial
institution, baseline architecture components and key rationale for their
use;
(b) is an overall technical design and high-level plan that describes the
financial institution’s technology infrastructure, systems’ interconnectivity and dependencies (e.g. fallback facility), and security
controls. The outlined information is critical to support identification of a
single point of failure;
(c) contains mapping to supported business functions, organisation units,
applications, and data to enable business impact analysis;
(d) defines principles and guideline to govern the design and maintenance
of the network infrastructure, related technology controls, and IT security
policies; and
(e) outline longer-term priorities to guide its evolution.

S

10.5

A financial institution must adopt a methodology for an effective and secure
implementation of IT systems. Key phases of System Development Life
Cycle (SDLC) shall include requirement, design, development, testing,
deployment, change management, maintenance and decommissioning, and
integrate with(a) enterprise architecture to ensure successful execution of business
strategy;
(b) risk management policies and practices to achieve business objectives;
and
(c) security principles16 and requirements to ensure confidentiality, integrity,
and availability of customer and counterparty information.

S

10.6

A financial institution must meet enterprise security, governance and
compliance requirements when using rapid system development
methodology17. Given the dynamic environment can increase likelihood of
errors, a financial institution shall automate the IT security compliance review
to prevent unauthorised access as well as the discovery and testing of
security vulnerabilities to ensure secure release of new IT services.

16 The security considerations shall include ensuring appropriate segregation of duties throughout the

SDLC.
17 Such as DevOps which is a set of practices for automating the processes between software
development and information technology operations teams so that they can build, test, and release
software faster and more reliably. The goal is to shorten the systems development life cycle and improve
reliability while delivering features, fixes, and updates frequently in close alignment with business
objectives.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

15 of 80

S

10.7

A financial institution shall physically segregate the production environment
from the development and testing environment to mitigate the risk of
unauthorised changes to the production systems. Where a financial
institution is relying on a cloud environment, the financial institution shall
ensure that these environments are not running on the same virtual host.

S

10.8

A financial institution must establish a sound methodology for a rigorous
system testing prior to deployment. The testing shall ensure that the system
meets user requirements and performs robustly. Where sensitive test data is
used, the financial institution must ensure proper authorisation procedures
and adequate measures to prevent their unauthorised disclosure are in place.

G 10.9

The scope of system testing referred to in paragraph 10.8 may include unit
testing, integration testing, user acceptance testing, application security
testing, stress and load testing, regression, exception and negative testing,
where applicable.

S

10.10

A financial institution must ensure any changes to the source code of critical
systems are subject to adequate source code reviews to ensure code is
secure and developed in line with recognised coding practices prior to
introducing any system changes.

S

10.11

A financial institution must establish appropriate procedures to
independently review and approve system changes. The financial institution
must also establish and test contingency plans in the event of an
unsuccessful implementation of material changes to minimise any business
disruption.

S

10.12 In relation to critical systems that are developed or maintained by third party
service provider, a financial institution must, through contractual obligations,
require third party service provider to:
(a) provide sufficient notice to the financial institution before any changes
are undertaken that may impact the IT system;
(b) demonstrate that it adopts secure by design principles in IT system
development methodology to mitigate cyber risks from propagating
across the supply chain; and
(c) ensure the source code continues to be readily accessible for business
continuity.

S

10.13

When decommissioning critical systems, a financial institution must ensure
minimal adverse impact on customers and business operations. This
includes establishing and testing contingency plans in the event of
unsuccessful system decommissioning.

G 10.14

A financial institution may deploy automated tools for software development,
testing, software deployment, change management, code scanning and
software version control to facilitate timely security assessment of critical
systems in keeping with growing complexity in IT systems and emerging
cyber threats.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

16 of 80

G 10.15

Where a third party software is used, a financial institution should consider
the potential risks and impacts a cyber supply chain incident may pose to its
overall business operations and services. A financial institution may
consider(a) adopting Software-Bill-of-Materials (SBOM)18 to automate the
identification and continuous monitoring of potential security
vulnerabilities including security issues associated with third party
software components; and
(b) establishing open-source software security policy and procedures. This
includes ensuring secure access to source code repositories in third
party platforms, regular monitoring to prevent data leakages, adoption
of secure coding practices, robust testing of open-source software and
timely vulnerability assessment to mitigate security vulnerabilities and
propagation of malwares across supply chain.

S

A financial institution must develop and implement robust policies to identify
and reduce shadow IT19 risks.

10.16

Patch and End-of-Life System Management
S

10.17

A financial institution must ensure that all systems including digital services
are not running with known security vulnerabilities20, on outdated platform or
end-of-life (EOL) technology systems. In this regard, a financial institution
must(a) maintain current security baseline for the security hardening of
technology components and ensure the security baseline is accurate
and up to date;
(b) continuously monitor and implement latest patch releases in a timely
manner;
(c) identify, plan and implement remedial action for technology systems that
are approaching EOL; and
(d) obtain management approval for any exception permitting the continued
use of unsupported or outdated technology. This exception must be
substantiated by a thorough risk assessment with clear timeline for
phasing out the outdated technology and are regularly reviewed at least
on annual basis to ensure associated risks are effectively managed.

18 Software-Bill-of-Materials (SBOM) refers to a formal record containing the details, and the various

components used in building a software product including its related supply chain relationships. SBOM
provides increased transparency, provenance, and speed at which vulnerabilities can be identified and
remediated across the SDLC.
19 Shadow IT refers to unauthorised use of hardware, software, or other systems and services within a
company, commonly without the IT department's approval, knowledge, or oversight.
20 Known security vulnerability refers to a documented flaw or weakness in a system that are publicly
disclosed or catalogued in databases such as the National Vulnerability Database (NVD) or Common
Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) list.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

17 of 80

S

10.18

A financial institution must establish a patch and EOL management
framework which addresses among others the following requirements:
(a) identification and risk assessment of all technology assets for potential
vulnerabilities arising from undeployed patches or EOL systems;
(b) formulation of criteria, priority and turnaround time for patch deployment
according to the severity of the vulnerabilities identified;
(c) conduct of compatibility testing prior to the deployment of patches to
minimise disruption to connected systems;
(d) adherence to the workflow for end-to-end patch deployment processes
including approval, testing, monitoring and tracking of activities; and
(e) end-user awareness for orderly transition.

S

10.19 A financial institution must continually monitor the effectiveness and security
of the technology in use, incorporating developments in technology that may
disrupt existing security controls21. A financial institution shall(a) ensure its board receives advice on the potential impact to business
operation arising from evolving technology landscape;
(b) formulate long-term strategy to address anticipated changes with
allocation of competent resources to manage associated risks, including
new cyber adversary tactics and techniques; and
(c) establish roadmap for system migration to preserve security and
reliability of the technology infrastructure in an orderly manner.
Cryptography

S

10.20

A financial institution must establish a robust and resilient cryptography
policy to promote the adoption of strong cryptographic controls for protection
of important data and information. This policy, at a minimum, shall address
requirements for(a) the adoption of industry standards for encryption algorithms, message
authentication, hash functions, digital signatures and random number
generation;
(b) the adoption of robust and secure processes in managing cryptographic
key lifecycles which include generation, distribution, renewal, usage,
storage, recovery, revocation and destruction;
(c) the periodic review, at least annually, of all cryptographic standards and
algorithms currently in use for critical systems, external linked or
transactional customer-facing applications to prevent exploitation of
weakened algorithms or protocols;
(d) the expansion of IT asset inventory to include all cryptographic tools and
algorithms in use with pertinent information on the rationale for each
cryptographic method employed and its mapping to supported
application systems; and
(e) the development and testing of compromise-recovery plans in the event
of a cryptographic key compromise. This must set out the escalation
process, procedures for keys regeneration, interim measures, changes
to business-as-usual protocols and containment strategies or options to
minimise the impact of a compromise.

21 Such as quantum computing.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

18 of 80

S

10.21

A financial institution must conduct due diligence and evaluate the
cryptographic controls associated with the technology used in order to
protect the confidentiality, integrity, authentication, authorisation and nonrepudiation of information. Additionally, a financial institution must ensure the
following:
(a) except for non-critical systems or applications that do not contain
customer information, the financial institution must retain ownership and
control of the encryption keys (themselves or with an independent key
custodian) to minimize the risk of unauthorised access to the data;
(b) where the financial institution does not generate its own encryption keys,
the financial institution shall undertake appropriate measures to ensure
robust controls and processes are in place to manage encryption keys
securely including adhere to relevant industry standard;
(c) where this involves a reliance on third party assessments22, the financial
institution shall consider whether such reliance is consistent with the
financial institution’s risk appetite and tolerance; and
(d) the financial institution must also give due regard to the system
resources required to support the cryptographic controls and the risk of
reduced network traffic visibility of data that has been encrypted.

S

10.22

A financial institution must ensure cryptographic controls are based on the
effective implementation of suitable cryptographic protocols. The protocols
shall include secret and public cryptographic key protocols, both of which
shall reflect a high degree of protection to the applicable secret or private
cryptographic keys. The selection of such protocols must be based on
recognised international standards and tested accordingly. Commensurate
with the level of risk, secret cryptographic key and private-cryptographic key
storage and encryption / decryption computation must be undertaken in a
protected environment, supported by a hardware security module (HSM),
trusted execution environment (TEE) or similarly secured devices.

S

10.23 A financial institution shall store public cryptographic keys in a certificate
issued by a Certificate Authority, as appropriate to the level of risk. Such
certificates associated with customers shall be issued by recognised
Certificate Authorities. The financial institution must ensure that the
implementation of authentication and signature protocols using such
certificates are subject to strong protection to ensure that the use of private
cryptographic keys corresponding to the user certificates are legally binding
and irrefutable. The initial issuance and subsequent renewal of such
certificates must be consistent with industry best practices and applicable
legal / regulatory specifications.

22 For example, where the financial institution is not able to perform its own validation on embedded

cryptographic controls due to the proprietary nature of the software or confidentiality constraints.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

19 of 80

Data Centre Resilience
S

10.24

A financial institution must specify the resilience and availability objectives of
its data centres to effectively support its business recovery objectives.

S

10.25

A financial institution must ensure data centres have redundant capacity
components and multiple distribution paths serving the computer equipment
to eliminate any single point of failure for effective achievement of the
identified business recovery objectives.

S

10.26

A financial institution shall host critical systems in a dedicated space intended
for production data centre usage. The dedicated space must be physically
secured from unauthorised access and is not located in a disaster-prone
area. A financial institution must also ensure there is no single point of failure
in the design and connectivity for critical components of the production data
centres, including hardware components, electrical utility, thermal
management and data centre infrastructure. A financial institution must also
ensure adequate maintenance, and holistic and continuous monitoring of
these critical components with timely alerts on faults and indicators of
potential issues.

S

10.27

A financial institution must establish adequate control procedures for its data
centre operations, including the deployment of relevant automated tools for
batch processing management to ensure timely and accurate batch
processes. These control procedures shall also include procedures for
implementing changes in the production system, error handling as well as
management of other exceptional conditions.

S

10.28

A financial institution must segregate incompatible activities in the data
centre operations environment to prevent any unauthorised activity 23. In the
case where vendors’ or programmers’ access to the production environment
is necessary, these activities must be properly authorised and monitored.

Service Availability
S

10.29

A financial institution must ensure its system capacity needs are well-planned
and managed with due regard to peak processing period, business growth
plans and technology architecture changes.

S

10.30

A financial institution must establish real-time monitoring mechanisms to
track capacity utilisation and performance of key processes and services 24.
These monitoring mechanisms shall be capable of providing actionable alerts
to administrators to enable timely detection and resolution of service
interruptions. The monitoring scope, metrics and thresholds shall be updated
periodically to ensure they remain effective.

23 For example, system development activities must be segregated from data centre operations.
24 For example, batch runs and backup processes for the financial institution’s application systems and

infrastructure.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

20 of 80

S

10.31

A financial institution shall enhance the resilience of key digital services 25 and
delivery channels26 through the following measures:
(a) implement effective mechanisms by 30 September 2027 to provide early
signals or warning of service degradation or intermittent failures. This
means the capability to:
(i) detect failed transactions and measure service availability27 more
accurately;
(ii) monitor the number of affected customers and transaction volumes
during service disruptions to measure the extent and severity
customer impact; and
(iii) immediately escalating to senior management when service
disruptions affect 5% or more of expected daily customers or
transaction volumes;
(b) conduct regular reviews to identify and mitigate potentially vulnerable IT
system interdependencies to prevent simultaneous interruptions to
multiple digital services or delivery channels; and
(c) establish stand-in processing arrangement by 30 September 2027 and
deploy such arrangement during disruptions to ensure continuity of
services during disruptions. A financial institution shall prioritise
deployment of this capability for digital services and delivery channels
which are least substitutable28, and ensure its customers are well
informed on the terms of use (such as the transaction limit), associated
risks and allocation of responsibilities between parties and mitigation
actions against fraud risks.

S

10.32

For critical systems, where there is a reasonable expectation for immediate
delivery of service to customers or dealings with counterparties, a financial
institution must ensure that these systems are designed for high availability
with a cumulative unplanned downtime affecting the interface with customers
or counterparties of not more than 4 hours on a rolling 12 months basis and
a maximum tolerable downtime of 120 minutes per incident.

G 10.33

Eligible e-money issuers, non-bank registered merchant acquirers and
intermediary remittance institutions that have not been designated as a
National Critical Information Infrastructure (NCII) entity are encouraged to
implement the measures provided in paragraph 10.31.

S

A financial institution shall prioritise diversity29 in technology to enhance
resilience by ensuring critical systems infrastructure are not excessively
exposed to similar technology risks.

10.34

25 Key digital services include balance enquiry for deposit accounts, domestic interbank fund transfers,

DuitNow, FPX, RENTAS, bill payments and overseas fund transfers.
26 Key delivery channels include internet banking, mobile banking, debit card or ATM (where relevant).
27 For example, financial institutions should be able to distinguish between failed transactions caused
by technical problems and scenarios involving customer inactivity or customer decision to abort.
28 For example, customers may be unable to use ATM for large-value funds transfers when internet
banking is disrupted or easily switch from a debit card to online banking channel for cashless parking
payments or closed loop toll payments.
29 Diversity in technology may include the use of different technology architecture designs and
applications, technology platforms and network infrastructure.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
S

10.35

21 of 80

During an interruption of digital services or delivery channels, including
periods of performance degradation or intermittent failures, a financial
institution shall respond promptly and effectively to minimise the impact on
its customers. This includes but not limited to(a) ensure timely escalation and decision-making to resume services
promptly via alternative arrangements and stabilise performance within
the timeframe specified in paragraph 10.32 under all plausible
scenarios;
(b) define clear accountabilities for managing performance degradation
issues and formalise arrangements with third party service providers to
ensure effective coordination and timely recovery to normal
performance levels;
(c) establish a communication plan for service interruptions to immediately
inform affected customers, properly manage a high volume of customer
feedback, and provide frequent updates on recovery efforts, as well as
actionable information on available alternatives for customers with
urgent needs;
(d) provide customers with a convenient means of checking the availability
of digital services, which may include publishing real-time availability
and performance status of its digital services on the corporate website;
and
(e) disclose the track record of service availability on a quarterly basis within
15 calendar days of quarter-end, beginning from 15 October 2027.

Network Resilience
S

10.36

A financial institution must design and implement a reliable, scalable and
secure enterprise network that is able to support its business activities,
including future growth plans.

S

10.37 A financial institution must ensure the network services for its critical systems
are reliable and have no single point of failure in order to protect the critical
systems against potential network faults and cyber threats.

G

10.38 The control measures to prevent from network faults as referred to in
paragraph 10.37 are expected to include component redundancy, service
diversity and alternate network paths.

S

10.39 A financial institution must establish real-time network bandwidth monitoring
processes and corresponding network service resilience metrics to flag any
over utilisation of bandwidth and system disruptions due to bandwidth
congestion and network faults. This includes traffic analysis to detect trends
and anomalies.

S

10.40

A financial institution must ensure network services supporting critical
systems are designed and implemented to ensure the confidentiality,
integrity and availability of data.

S

10.41

A financial institution must establish and maintain a network design blueprint
identifying all of its internal and external network interfaces and connectivity.
The blueprint must highlight both physical and logical connectivity between
network components and network segmentations.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

22 of 80

S

10.42

A financial institution must ensure sufficient and relevant network device logs
are retained for investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years.

S

10.43

A financial institution must implement appropriate safeguards to minimise the
risk of a system compromise in one entity affecting other entities within the
group. Safeguards implemented may include establishing logical network
segmentation for the financial institution from other entities within the group.

System backup and restoration
S

10.44

A financial institution must establish a robust backup strategy and
procedures to meet business recovery objectives. At a minimum, a financial
institution shall(a) establish backup and restoration procedures to effectively manage the
backup data life cycle;
(b) maintain an adequate number of backup copies of all critical data, the
updated version of the operating system software, production programs,
system utilities, all master and transaction files and event logs for
recovery purposes;
(c) backup media must be stored in an environmentally secure and accesscontrolled backup site;
(d) secure the storage and transportation of sensitive data in removable
media to meet minimum controls as specified in Appendix 1 or
equivalent;
(e) test backup and restoration procedures periodically to validate recovery
capabilities. Remedial actions shall be taken promptly by the financial
institution to fix the root cause of unsuccessful backups; and
(f) undertake an independent risk assessment of its end-to-end backup
storage and delivery management to ensure that existing controls are
adequate in protecting sensitive data at all times.

S

10.45

A financial institution shall establish a tamper-proof backup arrangement and
an isolated recovery environment to enable timely resumption of critical
banking and payment services within its tolerable level in the event of
destructive cyber-attacks such as widespread data loss caused by
ransomware.

Third Party Service Provider Management
S

10.46

The board and senior management of the financial institution must exercise
effective oversight and address associated risks when engaging third party
service providers30 for critical technology functions and systems. The
financial institution remains accountable for managing all risks that arise from
engagement of third party service providers, to ensure security and reliability
of technology services in compliance with all relevant regulatory
requirements prescribed in this policy document.

S

10.47

A financial institution must conduct a due diligence on a third party service
provider prior its on-boarding or engagement and throughout the service

30 The financial institution must adhere to the requirements in the policy document on Outsourcing for

engagements with third party service providers that meet the definition of outsourcing arrangement as
specified in the policy document.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

23 of 80

engagement to ensure achievement of business performance and recovery
objectives remain unimpaired, considering the latest risk environment. At the
minimum, a financial institution must consider the range of risks outlined in
Appendix 8.
S

10.48

A financial institution must establish a Service Level Agreement (SLA) when
engaging third party service provider. At a minimum, the SLA shall contain
the following:
(a) access rights for the regulator and any party appointed by the financial
institution to examine any activity or entity of the financial institution. This
shall include access to any record, file or data of the financial institution,
including management information and the minutes of all consultative
and decision-making processes;
(b) requirements for the third party service provider to provide sufficient
prior notice to financial institutions of any sub-contracting which is
substantial;
(c) a written undertaking by the third party service provider on its
compliance with secrecy provisions under relevant legislations. The SLA
shall further clearly provide for the third party service provider to be
bound by integrity and confidentiality provisions stipulated under the
contract even after the engagement has ended;
(d) arrangements for disaster recovery and backup capability, where
applicable;
(e) service level objectives for uptime or availability;
(f) arrangements to secure business continuity in the event of an exit or
termination of the third party service provider, which includes ensuring
data residing in third party service providers are recoverable in a timely
manner;
(g) responsibility of third party service providers to promptly disclose and
notify the financial institution31 of any service disruptions or cyber
incidents that affect the financial institution or its customer data that
occur within such service providers' or sub-contractors’ environment.
(h) requirements for the third party service providers to comply with the
relevant internationally recognised standards and ensure their key staff
keep their skills up-to-date with the relevant certifications; and
(i) requirements for third party service providers to participate in the
financial institution’s security awareness and education program, where
appropriate.

31 This enables financial institutions to provide timely updates to the Bank and other relevant regulatory

bodies, subject to the applicable secrecy provisions under relevant legislations.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
S

10.49

24 of 80

A financial institution must formulate a roadmap to achieve continuous
monitoring of a third party service provider’s cybersecurity posture to obtain
real-time insights for effective incident management. The financial institution
shall undertake the following:
(a) measure the IT infrastructure footprint and the customer information
accessible to third parties, and regularly manage this external stress
state exposures to mitigate cyber-attack surfaces;
(b) adopt leading security policies and controls to mitigate product-specific
third party risks;
(c) ensure incident response plans incorporate protocols with third party
service providers to detect and contain adverse impact of security
vulnerabilities resulting from software updates;
(d) define a priority set of security controls that require more frequent
assurance assertion from the third party service providers;
(e) monitor technology and cyber incidents information disclosed by third
party service providers at a higher frequency;
(f) implement technology solutions to automate metric testing; and
(g) establish processes to respond to breached thresholds, including
investigating failed assertions and remedying control gaps.

Cloud Services
S

10.50 A financial institution must fully understand the inherent risk of adopting cloud
services. In this regard, a financial institution shall conduct a comprehensive
risk assessment prior to cloud adoption which considers the inherent
architecture of cloud services that leverages on the sharing of resources and
services across multiple tenants over the Internet. The assessment must
specifically address risks associated with the following:
(a) sophistication of the deployment model;
(b) migration of existing systems to cloud infrastructure;
(c) location of cloud infrastructure including potential geo-political risks and
legal risks that may impede compliance with any legal or regulatory
requirements;
(d) multi-tenancy or data co-mingling;
(e) vendor lock-in and application portability or interoperability;
(f) ability to customise security configurations of the cloud infrastructure to
ensure a high level of data and technology system protection;
(g) exposure to cyber-attacks via cloud service providers;
(h) termination of a cloud service provider including the ability to secure the
financial institution’s data following the termination;
(i) demarcation of responsibilities, limitations and liability of the cloud
service provider; and
(j) ability to meet regulatory requirements and international standards on
cloud computing on a continuing basis.

G

10.51

For critical systems hosted on a public cloud32, a financial institution is
expected to consider common key risks and control measures as specified
in Appendix 10. A financial institution that relies on alternative risk
management practices that depart from the measures outlined in Appendix
10 is expected to be prepared to explain and demonstrate to the Bank that

Refer the Special Publication 800-145 on Definition of Cloud Computing issued by the National
Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S. Department of Commerce.
32

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

25 of 80

these alternative practices are at least as effective as, or superior to, the
measures in Appendix 10.
S

10.52

A financial institution must implement appropriate safeguards on customer
and counterparty information and proprietary data when using cloud services
to protect against unauthorised disclosure and access. This shall include
retaining ownership, control and management of all data pertaining to
customer and counterparty information, proprietary data and services hosted
on the cloud, including the relevant cryptographic keys management.

Access Control
S

10.53

A financial institution must implement an access control policy for the
identification, authentication, and authorisation of all users to its IT assets
and data. The level of granularity defined in the access control policy shall be
commensurate with the level of risk of unauthorised access to its IT assets.

S

10.54 A financial institution shall adhere to the following principles:
(a) adopt a “deny all” access control policy for users by default because all
access to IT assets must be explicitly authorised;
(b) employ “least privilege” access rights to ensure IT assets are accessed
on a “need-to-have” basis where only the minimum sufficient
permissions are granted to legitimate users to perform their roles;
(c) employ time-bound access which restrict access to a specific period
based on the nature of work;
(d) employ segregation of incompatible functions where no single person is
responsible for an entire operation that may provide the ability to
independently modify, circumvent, and disable system security features.
This may include a combination of functions such as:
(i) system development and technology operations;
(ii) security administration and system administration;
(iii) network operation and network security; and
(iv) IT operations environment;
(e) establish criteria for activities that require dual authorization control; and
(f) adopt robust user authorization and authentication based on criticality of
IT assets as follows:
(i) stronger authentication for critical activities and higher-risk
environment such as remote access;
(ii) ensure user credentials provisioned with robust identity verification
method to prevent impersonation risks; and
(iii) ensure online credential is uniquely linked to a single user to ensure
clear accountability in access to confidential IT assets.

S

10.55 A financial institution must employ a multi-factor authentication (MFA) that
can defend against social engineering attacks for authenticating user access
to critical systems. The MFA must combine two or more of knowledge factors,
inherent factors (e.g. biometric characteristics) or possession factors (e.g.
security keys, tokens).

S

10.56

A financial institution must establish a user access matrix to outline access
rights, user roles or profiles, and the authorising and approving authorities.
The access matrix must be periodically reviewed and updated.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
S

10.57

26 of 80

A financial institution must ensure(a) access controls to enterprise-wide systems are effectively managed and
monitored;
(b) anomalies are flagged for prompt investigations to contain any cyber
incidents; and
(c) user activities in critical systems are logged for audit and investigations.
Activity logs must be maintained for at least three years and regularly
reviewed in a timely manner.

The rest of the page is intentionally left as blank

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
11

27 of 80

Cybersecurity Management

Cyber Risk Management
S

11.1

A financial institution must ensure that there is an enterprise-wide focus on
effective cyber risk management to reflect the collective responsibility of
business and technology lines for managing cyber risks.

S

11.2

A financial institution must develop a CRF which clearly articulates its
governance for managing cyber risks, its cyber resilience objectives and its
risk tolerance, with due regard to the evolving cyber threat environment.
Objectives of the CRF shall include ensuring operational resilience against
extreme but plausible cyber-attacks. The framework must be able to support
the effective identification, protection, detection, response, and recovery
(IPDRR) of systems and data hosted on-premises or by third party service
providers from internal and external cyber-attacks.

S

11.3

The CRF must consist of, at a minimum, the following elements:
(a) development of an institutional understanding of the overall cyber risk
context in relation to the financial institution’s business and operations,
its exposure to cyber risks and current cybersecurity posture;
(b) identification, classification and prioritisation of critical systems,
information, assets and interconnectivity (with internal and external
parties) to obtain a complete and accurate view of the financial
institution’s information assets, critical systems, interdependencies and
cyber risk profile;
(c) identification
of
cybersecurity
threats,
vulnerabilities
and
countermeasures to secure digital services delivery against cyberattacks and contain reputational damage that can undermine confidence
in the financial institution;
(d) enhancing layers of cyber defence with reference to the latest
international standards and sound practices such as zero-trust
principles33, defense-in-depth through micro-segmentation and security
by design, to protect its data, infrastructure and assets against evolving
cyber threats;
(e) timely detection of cybersecurity incidents through continuous
surveillance and monitoring;
(f) detailed incident handling policies and procedures and a crisis response
management playbook to support the swift recovery from cyber
incidents and contain any damage resulting from a cybersecurity
breach;
(g) policies and procedures for timely and secure information sharing and
collaboration with other financial institutions and participants in financial
market infrastructure to strengthen cyber resilience and fraud
prevention;
(h) implement a centralised automated tracking system to manage its
technology asset inventory; and
(i) establish a cyber risk management function to analyse actual and
potential cyber threats, providing risk assessments and timely

33 Zero-trust

principles is a security paradigm designed to prevent data breaches and limit lateral
movement of threat actors by requiring all users, whether in or outside the organization’s network, to be
authenticated, authorised, and validated before being granted the access.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

28 of 80

escalation of high-risk cyber threats to senior management and the
board. This function shall be performed by an in-house dedicated team
or by leveraging on the parent or group.
S

11.4

A financial institution that is designated as a National Critical Information
Infrastructure (NCII) entity pursuant to the Cyber Security Act 2024 must
ensure compliance to the requirements and guidelines applicable to NCII,
including any additional directives and standards issued by the National
Cyber Security Agency (NACSA).

S

11.5

A financial institution must adopt robust control measures as outlined in
Appendix 5 to enhance its resilience to cyber-attacks.

S

11.6

A financial institution must conduct a realistic "Red Team34" simulation attack
on its infrastructure at least once every three years to proactively identify and
manage potential vulnerabilities.

G

11.7

A financial institution may implement crowdsourced security testing programs
as a complement to existing security assessments, in order to thoroughly test
the security of their IT environment. The financial institution must engage
reputable and credible service providers to facilitate the program.

Cybersecurity Operations
S

11.8

A financial institution must establish clear responsibilities for cybersecurity
operations which shall include implementing appropriate mitigating
measures in the financial institution’s conduct of business that correspond to
the following phases of the cyber-attack lifecycle:
(a) reconnaissance;
(b) weaponisation;
(c) delivery;
(d) exploitation;
(e) installation;
(f) command and control; and
(g) exfiltration.

S

11.9

A financial institution must ensure continuous and proactive monitoring and
timely detection of anomalous activities in its technology infrastructure to
prevent potential compromise of its security controls or weakening of its
security posture. This shall include(a) establishing a Security Operations Center (SOC) supported by
competent resources and equipped with the necessary tools and
technologies for proactive monitoring of its technology security posture;

34 A red team exercise involves a controlled attempt to rigorously evaluate an institution's security

defences, resilience, and response capabilities. In this exercise, a team of information security experts
known as the "red team" simulates the tactics, techniques, and procedures of potential adversaries to
critically assess the effectiveness of the institution’s security measures, with minimal knowledge and
impact on operations.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

29 of 80

(b) ensuring the scope of monitoring must cover all critical systems
including the supporting infrastructure; and
(c) conducting regular review of its security posture via the conduct of a
vulnerability assessment and penetration testing in line with Appendix
5.
S

11.10 A financial institution must establish a process to collect, analyse and
evaluate cyber threat information in relation to its environment (“cyber threat
intelligence”) to promptly detect cyber threats, including data breach incidents
and spread of misleading information in relation to the financial institution over
the Internet35.

S

11.11

A financial institution must establish appropriate response to investigate and
respond to flagged anomalous activities based on their level of complexity.

Cyber Response and Recovery
S

11.12

A financial institution must establish comprehensive cyber crisis
management policies and procedures that incorporate cyber-attack
scenarios and responses in the organisation’s overall crisis management
plan, escalation processes, business continuity and disaster recovery
planning. This includes developing a clear communication plan for engaging
shareholders, regulatory authorities, customers and employees in the event
of a cyber incident.

S

11.13

A financial institution must establish and implement a comprehensive Cyber
Incident Response Plan (CIRP). The CIRP must address the following:
(a) Preparedness
Establish a clear governance process, reporting structure and roles and
responsibilities of the Cyber Emergency Response Team (CERT) as
well as invocation and escalation procedures in the event of an incident;
(b) Detection and analysis
Ensure effective and expedient processes for identifying points of
compromise, assessing36 the extent of damage and preserving sufficient
evidence for forensics purposes;
(c)

Containment and eradication
Identify and implement remedial actions to prevent or minimise damage
to the financial institution, contain and remove the known threats and
resume business activities;

(d) Recovery
Implement multiple strategies including contingency plans as part of
incident recovery to swiftly resume business operations and significantly
enhance redundancy and resilience; and

35 This includes the capability to collect and correlate such information from sources such as social

media and dark web.
36 This includes competency in handling threat actor claims by confirming the legitimacy and extent of
the incident and uncover more details on the threat actor.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

30 of 80

(e) Post-incident activity
Conduct post-incident review incorporating lessons learned and develop
long-term risk mitigations.
S

11.14

A financial institution must ensure that relevant CERT members are
conversant with the incident response plan and handling procedures and
remain contactable at all times.

S

11.15

A financial institution shall establish a secure and reliable out-of-band
communication infrastructure for both internal and external stakeholders to
ensure continued coordination and communication if the primary
communication infrastructure is compromised or rendered unavailable during
a crisis.

S

11.16

A financial institution must conduct an annual cyber drill exercise to test the
effectiveness of its CIRP including the out-of-band communication methods,
based on various current and emerging threat scenarios (e.g. social
engineering), with the involvement of key stakeholders including members of
the board, senior management and relevant third party service providers.
The result of the annual cyber drill exercise must be reported to the board in
a timely manner. The out-of-band communication methods must also be
tested regularly as part of the institutions cyber drill exercises. The test
scenarios must include scenarios designed to test(a) the effectiveness of escalation, internal and external communication and
decision-making processes that correspond to different impact levels of
a cyber incident; and
(b) the readiness and effectiveness of CERT and relevant third party service
providers in supporting the recovery process.

S

11.17 A financial institution shall review its loss provision arrangements to ensure
its adequacy to cover cyber incidents based on its scenario analysis of
extreme adverse events. Where cyber insurance is adopted to mitigate
impact of cyber incidents, the financial institution shall(a) ensure that the scope of the insurance policy adequately covers the
information security events and types of liability that the financial
institution is exposed to;
(b) understand the terms and conditions of the insurance policy in relation
to warranties, attestations or any responsibilities of the financial
institution, have them reflected in the crisis response policies and
procedures as appropriate and ensure that any changes to IT services
and control measures do not result in unintended exclusions of cover;
and
(c) ensure that any obligations imposed by the insurance policy (such as in
relation to appointment of experts and accepting their recommendations
during a cyber incident) do not impair its ability to act in the best interest
of the financial institution and its customers. The financial institution shall
anticipate and adequately manage any conflict of interest that may arise
from the objective of the insurer to minimise the cost of its liability under
the insurance policy.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

31 of 80

Cyber Reporting and Threat Information Sharing
S

11.18

A financial institution is required to notify the Bank of cyber incidents in
adherence to the Bank’s policy documents on Operational Risk Reporting –
Part C, Business Continuity Management – Part C, Merchant Acquiring
Services – paragraphs 19.25 to 19.26 and any other relevant policy
documents specified by the Bank.

S

11.19 Subject to the applicable data protection laws, a financial institution must
share cyber threat intelligence information with the industry on a timely basis
via the relevant sharing platforms developed by the Bank, the industry, or law
enforcement agencies. In addition, the financial institution must allocate
resources to participate in any industry-wide initiatives aimed at improving
collective threat intelligence capabilities.

S

11.20 A financial institution shall collaborate and cooperate closely with relevant
stakeholders and authorities in combating cyber threats.

The rest of the page is intentionally left as blank

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
12

32 of 80

Digital Services

Security of Digital Services
S

12.1

Securing digital services is an integral part of financial institution’s risk
management. A financial institution must expand its CRF to implement robust
technology security controls in providing digital services which assure the
following:
(a) adopt and regularly assess the minimum-security controls for respective
delivery channels to ensure confidentiality and integrity of customer and
counterparty information and transactions. Refer to Appendices 2, 3, 4
and 11;
(b) proper authentication of users or devices and authorization of
transactions to mitigate impersonation and fraud risk. Refer the
minimum-security controls in Appendix 3; and
(c) strong physical control and logical control measures.

S

12.2

In the event that a financial institution has not yet implemented the digital
services security controls specified under paragraph 12.1 to 12.9, the
financial institution must(a)
(b)

be ready to provide documented explanation of how alternatives
measures or mitigations achieve equivalent or superior effectiveness;
and
assume the liability of any fraud that occurs due to the gaps arise from
the absence of the specified control.

Digital Fraud Management and Customer Awareness
S

12.3

The complex and fast evolving digital fraud requires financial institutions to be
vigilant against new fraud techniques and proactive in strengthening their
cyber defence for customer protection. In line with paragraphs 11.2 and 11.3,
a financial institution must enhance its CRF as follows:
(a) expand the scope of identification of cybersecurity threats and
countermeasures to include customers’ mobile devices and access
points;
(b) adopt layered (defense-in-depth) security controls to protect the digital
service application deployed to customers’ mobile devices and the
relevant banking data contained in it;
(c) perform continuous surveillance and monitoring to detect any
exploitation of the digital service application deployed to customers’
mobile devices and ensure the swift upgrade of security controls to
mitigate new vulnerabilities;
(d) establish clearly defined and effective incident handling procedures to
assist customers to contain the potential damage resulting from a
cybersecurity breach involving digital services;
(e) formalise operational arrangement to enable swift coordinated response
and rapid upgrade of countermeasures to defend against advanced
fraud tactics if a financial institution relies on multiple business functions;
(f) conduct regular review by senior management to ensure the
effectiveness of digital fraud management and define threshold for
escalation of countermeasures considering the actual impact to victims
of digital fraud and emerging fraud environment; and

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

33 of 80

(g) apprise the board on the outcome of management reviews to preserve
public confidence in the security of digital services and mitigate
reputation risk to the industry.
S

12.4

A financial institution must ensure that its fraud detection capabilities and
rules are updated in a timely manner upon detection of new fraud modus
operandi in order to prevent fraudulent transactions or account takeover using
stolen customer credentials. This must be supported by appropriate risk
analytics to improve the accuracy of fraud detection, that includes continuous
upgrade of fraud detection capabilities as specified in Appendix 11 on Fraud
Detection Standards.

S

12.5

A financial institution must mitigate any attendant risk arising from its delivery
of digital services. This shall include(a) adopt secure communication channel to mitigate risk of phishing.
Compensating controls shall be adopted when using communication
channel prone to phishing exploits37;
(b) all customers must be properly informed in advance of new controls to
ease adoption and minimise inconvenience; and
(c) practical ways for customers to verify the authenticity of calls made by
the financial institution or its appointed outsourced service providers.

S

12.6

A financial institution shall empower customers to mitigate digital fraud risks
where it is reasonably practical. This shall include offering customer
mechanisms to manage activation and de-activation of payment card38 for
card-not-present and overseas transactions. This shall not absolve the
financial institution from its liabilities, responsibilities and duty of care to
ensure the security of its digital services.

S

12.7

Consumer competency is essential to strengthening the security of digital
services. A financial institution must maintain continuous efforts to review and
enhance the effectiveness of its awareness programmes, ensuring customers
understand the risks of digital services fraud. This shall include(a) continuous and timely updates of practical information on how to identify
potential fraud, including specific information about new or common
modus operandi;
(b) clear explanation about new and existing security measures, such as
how to verify genuine e-banking websites and mobile applications;
(c) real-time alerts of possible risks when security measures are absent or
have not yet been implemented; and
(d) measures to further improve customer understanding and familiarisation
with fraud risks and controls, such as through interactive simulations of
security features etc.

S

12.8

A financial institution must provide convenient means for customers to report,
suspend and re-activate their account swiftly in the event of a suspected
fraud, where applicable. This shall require the financial institution to:

A financial institution must remove any clickable hyperlinks in short messaging service (SMS)
messages to customers and create awareness on this change to mitigate risk of phishing.
38 A financial institution must adhere to the relevant requirements of the policy documents, as issued by
the Bank, on Debit Card and Debit Card-I, and Credit Card and Credit Card-I in managing opt-in
requirement for card-not-present and overseas transactions.
37

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

34 of 80

(a) offer a secure self-service “kill switch” solution;
(b) ensure that its contact centre is adequately resourced and operating
effectively to provide prompt and adequate assistance to customers in
distress; and
(c) restore customer access to digital services within a reasonable
timeframe upon validation.
S

12.9

In addition to effective incident handling procedures, a financial institution
must adopt additional measures to mitigate risk to customers arising from any
incident involving potential fraud or compromise of customer data. This shall
include(a) heighten monitoring of affected customer accounts;
(b) notify affected customers and provide them with the necessary
information to apply mitigating measures and reduce the risk of fraud;
and
(c) revoke and re-issue affected user credentials or designated payment
instruments, where there is a potential risk of exploitation due to
compromised data or other fraudulent activity.

The rest of the page is intentionally left as blank

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
13

35 of 80

Technology Audits

Audit function
S

13.1

A financial institution must ensure that the scope, frequency, and intensity of
technology audits are commensurate with the complexity, sophistication and
criticality of technology systems and applications.

S

13.2

A financial institution must establish annual review on its technology audit plan
that provides appropriate frequency and coverage of critical technology
services, third party service providers, material external system interfaces,
delayed or prematurely terminated critical technology projects and postimplementation review of new or material enhancements of technology
services.

S

13.3

A financial institution must ensure the internal audit function must have
dedicated technology audit resources with specialised competencies and
professionally certified. The technology audit resources shall be adequately
conversant with the developing sophisticate of the financial institution’s
technology systems, delivery channels and have sound knowledge in the
areas audited.

G 13.4

The technology audit resources may be enlisted to provide advice on
compliance and adequacy of control processes during the planning and
development phases of new major products, systems, adoption of third party
service providers or technology operations. In such cases, the technology
auditors participating in this capacity are expected to carefully consider
whether such an advisory or consulting role can materially impair their
independence or objectivity in performing post-implementation reviews of the
products, systems and operations concerned.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

36 of 80

14

External Party Assurance

S

14.1

A financial institution shall appoint a technically competent external service
provider to carry out a production data centre resilience and risk assessment
(DCRA). The assessment must consider all major risks and determine the
current level of resilience of the production data centre. A financial institution
must ensure the assessment is conducted at least once every three years or
when there is a material change in the data centre infrastructure, whichever is
earlier. The assessment shall, at a minimum, include a consideration of
whether the requirements in paragraphs 10.24 to 10.28 have been adhered
to. For data centres managed by third party service providers, a financial
institution shall only rely on independent third party assurance reports
provided such reliance is consistent with the financial institution’s risk appetite
and tolerance, and the independent assurance has considered similar risks
and meets the requirements in this paragraph for conducting the DCRA. The
designated board-level committee specified in paragraph 8.3 must deliberate
the outcome of the assessment.

S

14.2

A financial institution shall appoint a technically competent external service
provider to carry out regular network resilience and risk assessments (NRA)
and set proportionate controls aligned with its risk appetite. The assessment
must be conducted at least once in three years or whenever there is a material
change in the network design, whichever is earlier. The assessment must
consider all major risks and determine the current level of resilience. This shall
include an assessment of the financial institution’s adherence to the
requirements in paragraphs 10.36 to 10.43. The designated board-level
committee specified in paragraph 8.3 must deliberate the outcome of the
assessment.

15

Security Awareness and Education

S

15.1

A financial institution must provide adequate and regular technology and
cybersecurity awareness education for all staff in undertaking their respective
roles and measure the effectiveness of its education and awareness
programs. This cybersecurity awareness education must be conducted at
least annually and must reflect the evolving cyber threat landscape and
emerging risks. Where appropriate, the financial institution shall also include
its third party service providers in their relevant training as outlined in
paragraph 10.48(i).

S

15.2

A financial institution must provide adequate and continuous training for staff
involved in technology operations, cybersecurity and risk management in
order to ensure that the staff are competent and suitably certified to effectively
perform their roles and responsibilities.

S

15.3

A financial institution must provide its board members with regular training and
information on technology developments to enable the board to effectively
discharge its oversight role.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
PART C
16

37 of 80

REGULATORY PROCESS

Notification for Technology-Related Applications

Introduction or enhancement to digital services
S

16.1

A financial institution must notify the Bank in accordance with the
requirements in paragraphs 16.2 to 16.7 prior to introducing new digital
services or enhancement to existing digital services.

S

16.2

A financial institution offering digital services for the first time must undertake
measures specified under paragraph 16.4 and submit the following
information in the notification to the Bank:
(a) assessment on the risks identified and strategies to manage such risks.
This includes specific accountabilities, policies and controls to address
risks;
(b) security arrangements and controls;
(c) significant terms and conditions;
(d) client charter;
(e) privacy policy statement; and
(f) any outsourcing or website link arrangements, or strategic alliances or
partnerships with third parties that have been finalised.

S

16.3

For any enhancements to existing digital services which meet the criteria in
Appendix 6, a financial institution shall be subject to a simplified notification
requirement and submit the following information in the notification to the
Bank:
(a) description of the enhancements to the existing technologies; and
(b) risk assessment of the proposed enhancements, including the impact
and measures to mitigate identified risks.

S

16.4

For any enhancements to existing digital services which are not subject to
the simplified notification requirement under paragraph 16.3, a financial
institution is required to undertake the following measures prior to notifying
the Bank:
(a) engage an independent external party to provide assurance that the
financial institution has addressed the technology risks and security
controls associated with the digital services or any material
enhancement to the digital services. The format of the assurance shall
be as set out in Part A of Appendix 7; and
(b) provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
chairman of the board or designated board-level committee specified in
paragraph 8.3 of the financial institution’s readiness to provide digital
services or implement any material enhancement to the digital services.
The format of the confirmation shall be as set out in Part B of Appendix
7.

S 16.5

A financial institution must ensure that the independent external party
providing the assurance is competent and has a good track record. The
assurance shall address the matters covered in, and comply with, Part C
and D of Appendix 7.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

38 of 80

S 16.6

A financial institution shall provide relevant documents for the Bank’s review
when required by the Bank.

G 16.7

A financial institution may offer digital services or implement any
enhancement to the digital services immediately upon submission of the
notification under paragraph 16.1 and compliance with the requirements in
paragraphs 16.2 to 16.6.

17

Consultation and Notification related to Cloud Services and Emerging
Technology

S 17.1

A financial institution is required to consult the Bank prior to the first-time
adoption of a public cloud or emerging technology for critical systems. During
the consultation, the financial institution must demonstrate that specific risks
associated with the use of these technologies have been adequately
considered and addressed to the satisfaction of the Bank, in order to proceed
with the adoption of the public cloud for critical systems for the first time. The
financial institution shall undertake the following prior to consulting the Bank
on its adoption of public cloud for critical systems:
(a) conduct a comprehensive risk assessment of the proposed cloud
adoption or emerging technology, including the possible impact and
measures to address and mitigate the identified risks. For public cloud,
the assessment must follow the risk outlined in paragraph 10.50 and
Appendix 10. For emerging technology, it must follow the guideline in
Appendix 9. The financial institution shall also adopt the format of the
Risk Assessment Report as per Part A of Appendix 7;
(b) provide a confirmation by the CISO, senior management officer or the
chairman of the board or designated board-level committee specified in
paragraph 8.3 of the financial institution’s readiness to adopt public
cloud or emerging technology for critical system. The format of the
confirmation shall be as set out in Part B of Appendix 7; and
(c) perform a third party pre-implementation review on public cloud or
emerging technology. This review shall encompass the areas set out in
Appendix 10 (for public cloud) or Appendix 9 (for emerging technology)
and Part C of Appendix 7 for higher-risk services, such as those
involving the processing or storage of customer information, or crossborder data transmission.

S 17.2

A financial institution shall notify the Bank on any subsequent adoption of a
public cloud or emerging technology for critical system, by submitting the
notification together with the necessary updates to all the information required
under paragraph 17.1, subject to the financial institution having complied with
the following requirements and included documentation and information to
demonstrate such compliance in the notification submitted to the Bank that
the financial institution:
(a) has consulted the Bank prior to adopting a public cloud or emerging
technology for critical systems for the first time in accordance with
paragraph 17.1, with no concerns raised by the Bank during the firsttime consultation;

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

39 of 80

(b) has enhanced the technology risk management framework to manage
cloud or emerging technology risks;
(c) has established independent assurance on the cloud risk management
framework or emerging technology risk management framework; and
(d) has provided assurance to the Bank that the incident response plans
are sufficient to cater for adverse or unexpected events.
G 17.3

For the avoidance of doubt, notification to the Bank under paragraph 17.2 is
not required for any enhancement to existing cloud adoption and emerging
technology adoption that does not materially alter the prior assessments and
representations made by a financial institution to the Bank.

S 17.4

The Bank may at its discretion direct a financial institution to consult the Bank
under paragraph 17.1, notify the Bank under paragraph 17.2 or observe any
of the guidance in Appendix 10 or Appendix 9 and to explain any deviations
from the guidance in Appendix 10 or Appendix 9, including for a non-critical
system or when the pre-requisites in the paragraphs 17.1 or 17.2 have not
been met. A financial institution must comply with such a directive promptly
and to the satisfaction of the Bank.

S 17.5

A financial institution must ensure the roadmap for adoption of cloud services
or emerging technology (for critical systems and non-critical systems) is
included in the annual outsourcing plan submitted to the Bank in adherence
with the requirements in the policy document on Outsourcing or IT Profile
reporting. The risk assessment as outlined in paragraph 10.50 for cloud
services or Appendix 9 for emerging technology must also be documented
and made available for the Bank’s review as and when requested by the
Bank.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

40 of 80

18

Assessment and Gap Analysis

S

18.1

A financial institution must perform a gap analysis of existing practices in
managing technology risk against the requirements in this policy document
and highlight key implementation gaps. The financial institution must develop
an action plan with a clear timeline and key milestones to address the gaps
identified. The gap analysis and action plan must be submitted to the Bank
no later than 90 days after the issuance date of this policy document.
Financial institutions that have previously made a submission in accordance
with the equivalent provision in the previous version of this policy document
are required to maintain continuous compliance by identifying any new gaps
against the enhanced or revised requirements in the latest version of this
policy document and taking the necessary steps to address such gaps. The
updated annual assessment of its level of compliance must be made
available to the Bank upon request.

S

18.2

The self-assessment, gap analysis and action plan in paragraph 18.1 must
be submitted to Jabatan Penyeliaan Konglomerat Kewangan, Jabatan
Penyeliaan Perbankan, Jabatan Penyeliaan Insurans dan Takaful or Jabatan
Pemantauan Perkhidmatan Pembayaran, as the case may be.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

41 of 80

APPENDI CES

Appendix 1 Storage and Transportation of Sensitive Data in Removable Media
Financial institutions must ensure adequate controls and measures are implemented
for the storage and transportation of sensitive data in removable media, including:
1.

deploying the latest industry-tested and accepted encryption techniques;

2.

implementing authorised access control to sensitive data (e.g. password
protection, user access matrix);

3.

prohibiting unauthorised copying and reading from the media;

4.

where there is a need to transport the removable media to a different physical
location, financial institutions must(a)

(b)
(c)
(d)
5.

strengthen the chain of custody processes for media management which
includes:
(i) the media must not be under single custody at any point of time;
(ii) the media must always be within sight of the designated custodians;
and
(iii) the media must be delivered to its target destination without
unscheduled stops or detours;
use secure and official vehicle for transportation;
use strong and tamper-proof containers for storing the media with highsecurity lock (e.g. dual key and combination lock); and
implement location tracking functionality for each media container; and

ensuring third party service providers comply with the requirements in paragraphs
1 to 4 of this Appendix, in the event third party services are required in
undertaking the storage management or transportation process of sensitive data.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

42 of 80

Appendix 2 Control Measures on Self-service Terminals (SSTs)
Cash SST
Cash SSTs are computer terminals provided by banking institutions such as
Automated Teller Machine, Cash Deposit Machine and Cash Recycler Machine that
provide cash transactions such as cash withdrawals and deposits including in foreign
currencies.
Financial institutions must ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the Cash SST, which includes1.

enforcing full hard disk encryption;

2.

retaining cards or block access to Cash SST service when the following are
detected:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

exceed maximum PIN attempts;
invalid card authentication value;
cash SST card unable to eject;
“deactivated” card status;
inactive account status such as “Dormant” or “Deceased”; and
cards tagged as “Lost” or “Stolen”;

3.

deploying antivirus solution for Cash SST, ensure full virus scanning on all Cash
SSTs is performed periodically and ensuring timely update of signatures;

4.

implementing a centralised management system to monitor and alert any
unauthorised activities on Cash SST such as unauthorised shutting-down of
operating system or deactivation of the white-listing programme;

5.

ensuring effective control over the Cash SST lock and key by using a unique and
non-duplicable key to open the Cash SST PC Core compartment as well as
ensure proper safekeeping and custody of the key;

6.

installing alarm system with triggering mechanism connected to a centralised
alert system to detect and alert bank’s staff of any unauthorised opening or
tampering of the physical component of the Cash SST, particularly the access to
the Cash SST PC Core;

7.

securing physically the Cash SST PC Core by enclosing the central processing
unit (CPU) in a locked case;

8.

enforcing pairing authentication for key Cash SST components, particularly
between cash dispenser and Cash SST controller;

9.

enforcing Basic Input Output System (BIOS) lock-down which includes:
(a)
(b)
(c)

enabling unique password protection for accessing BIOS. The password
shall be held by financial institutions under strict control;
disabling external input device and port such as CD-ROM, floppy disk and
USB port. The Cash SST operating system can only be booted from the
internal hard disk; and
disabling automatic BIOS update;

10. ensuring proper configuration and hardening of the operating system and
application system, which includes:
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

43 of 80

blocking any wireless network connection such as Bluetooth, Wi-Fi;
disabling Microsoft default program system (such as Notepad, Internet
browser, Windows shortcut, file download, file sharing and command
prompt);
disabling unnecessary services in the operating system such as the autoplay features;
concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;
enabling cache auto-deletion; and
disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions;

11. enforcing secure system parameter setting, which includes(a)
(b)
(c)

changing default passwords and other system security parameters setting
of the Cash SST;
using a unique system administrator password for all Cash SSTs; and
using lowest-level privileges for programmes and users’ system access;

12. enforcing and monitoring of Cash SST end-point protection such as installing
white-listing programmes. The end-point protection programme, at a minimum,
shall ensure only authorised Cash SST system processes and libraries are
installed and executed;
13. enforcing strict control procedures over installation and maintenance of Cash
SST operating systems and application systems, which includes(a)
(b)
(c)

ensuring only authorised personnel have access to gold disk copy (master
copy of Cash SST installation software);
ensuring the gold disk copy is scanned for virus / malware prior to
installation into Cash SST; and
enforcing dual control for installation and maintenance of Cash SST
software; and

14. installing closed-circuit cameras and transaction triggered cameras at strategic
locations with adequate lighting in order to ensure high quality and clear closedcircuit television images of cardholder performing a transaction as well as any
suspicious activities.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

44 of 80

Non- Cash SST
Non-cash SSTs are computer terminals such as desktops, laptops, tablets, kiosks or
machines that provide non-cash transactions such as cheque deposits, balance
enquiries, fund transfers, card replacements, utilities bill payments or insurance
quotations.
Financial institutions must ensure the adequacy of physical and logical security and
controls implemented on the self-service terminals, which includes1.

enforcing the use of lock and key on the computer terminal’s CPU at all times;

2.

deploying closed-circuit television to monitor the usage of self-service terminals;

3.

disabling the use of all input devices (such as USB, CD and DVD), application
system (such as Notepad, Microsoft Word, and Microsoft PowerPoint) and file
download as well as command prompt on the kiosk;

4.

disabling browser scripting, pop-ups, ActiveX, Windows shortcut;

5.

concealing Start Bar or Tray Menu;

6.

enabling cache auto-deletion;

7.

disabling key combinations and right-click mouse functions; and

8.

restricting use of Internet browser i.e. only to be used to access the financial
institution’s internet website.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

45 of 80

Appendix 3 Control Measures for Digital Services
1.

A financial institution must ensure the adequacy of security controls implemented
for digital services, which include the following, where relevant:
(a)

ensure registration or enrolment of digital services is subject to robust
authentication and verification;

(b)

ensure transactions are performed over secured channels such as the
latest version of Transport Layer Security (TLS);

(c)

ensure that both client and host application systems encrypt all confidential
information prior to transmission over the network;

(d)

implement strong mutual authentication between the users’ end-point
devices and financial institutions’ servers, such as the use of the latest
version of Extended Validation SSL certificate (EV SSL);

(e)

ensure secure user and session handling management;

(f)

ensure sufficient and relevant digital service logs are retained for
investigations and forensic purposes for at least three years;

(g)

put in place additional authentication protocols to enable customers to
identify the financial institution’s genuine website such as deploying image
or word verification authentication or similar controls. The system shall
require the customer to acknowledge that the image or word is correct
before the password box is displayed to the customer;

(h)

ensure resilience against brute-force attacks39;

(i)

for new customers, the default transfer limit shall be set at a conservatively
low level (such as RM1,000 per day). However, customers shall be
provided with the option to change the limit via secure channels (e.g. online
with multi-factor authentication (MFA) or at branches); and

(j)

apply appropriate verification and cooling-off period for first time enrolment
of digital services or secure device, transaction limit increase or other
activities which deemed necessary.

39 A brute-force attack is a method used by attackers to gain unauthorised access to a system by

systematically trying possible combinations or attempting to guess passwords or encryption keys.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

46 of 80

2.

A financial institution must ensure technology used in identity proofing and
authentication methods are (a) secure, highly resistant to cyber threats40 affecting customer devices,
including but not limited to malware, phishing, unauthorised access and
data leakage;
(b) accurate, have a minimal false acceptance rate to ensure confidentiality,
integrity and non-repudiation of transactions across all authentication
methods, including biometrics, tokenized processes, and contactless
systems; and
(c) compliant with internationally recognised standards where available and
ensuring consistency and reliability in the security and performance of
digital services.

3.

A financial institution must strengthen security controls for registration and update
of mobile device and customer details (such as mobile number, email and postal
address) used for authentication of digital service transactions to prevent
fraudsters from initiating funds transfers using stolen credentials. This shall
include(a) ensure secure binding and unbinding processes for restricting that
authentication of digital service transactions by default to one mobile device
or secure device per account holder (or to designated devices in the case
of joint or business accounts), except when specifically requested by
customers who understand and accept the risks of dispensing with this
control;
(b) ensure all customers are immediately alerted upon detecting access to the
customer’s account from a new device, or when customer details are
changed;
(c) ensure that the registration of new mobile phone number or replacement of
existing mobile phone number is only processed after applying robust
verification methods to confirm the authenticity of the customer;
(d) adopt efficient measures to promptly verify and assist customers who need
to change devices or update their personal details; and
(e) apply appropriate verification and cooling-off period for first time enrolment
of digital services or secure device and multiple successive high-volume
transactions or other abnormal transaction patterns. Transaction limit
increase must also be subject to appropriate verification.

4.

A financial institution must implement controls to authenticate devices and users,
authorise transactions, and support non-repudiation and accountability for
transactions performed via digital services. These measures must include, at a
minimum, the following:
(a) adopt MFA for financial and high-risk non-financial transactions. This
includes when registering an account as a “favourite” beneficiary and, for
all subsequent funds transfer to the favourite beneficiary;
(b) request users to verify details of the transaction prior to execution; and
(c) provide timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of the
nature of the transaction.

40 This includes but not limited to malware, phishing, transaction fraud or data leakage.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

47 of 80

5.

A financial institution must ensure the MFA solution used to authenticate financial
transactions are adequately secure and resistant to phishing attacks, which
includes the following:
(a) activation of MFA must be subject to robust verification by the financial
institution;
(b) timely notification to customers of any activation of and changes to the MFA
solution via the customers’ verified communication channel; and
(c) deployment of MFA technology and channels that are more secure than
unencrypted SMS.

6.

A financial institution must ensure that the security controls of MFA solutions
include adherence to the following requirements:
(a) the MFA solution is resistant to interception or manipulation by any third
party throughout the authentication process;
(b) payer / sender must be made aware and prompted to confirm details of the
identified beneficiary and amount of the transaction;
(c) authentication code must be initiated and generated locally by the payer /
sender using MFA;
(d) authentication code generated by payer / sender must be specific to the
confirmed identified beneficiary and amount;
(e) secure underlying technology must be established to ensure the
authentication code accepted by the financial institution corresponds to the
confirmed transaction details; and
(f) notification must be provided to the payer / sender of the transaction.

7.

Where a financial institution deploys OTP as an additional factor of
authentication, the following features must be implemented:
(a) OTP must be dynamic where it changes each time it is required and timebound;
(b) binding of the transaction details to the OTP generated by the device (e.g.
beneficiary account number, amount of transaction); and
(c) generation of the OTP from the customer’s device and not from the bank’s
server to mitigate the risk of manipulating OTP in the financial institution’s
infrastructure and increase customer control over authentication process.

8.

Where a financial institution decides not to adopt MFA for financial transactions
below RM10,000 to customer’s own account, the financial institution must
implement adequate safeguards to protect customer from digital fraud. This shall
include(a) SLA of T+3 calendar days (or less), T being the date of event reported by
customer, for reversal of any unauthorised first-party transactions reported
by customer;
(b) set appropriate limits on a per-transaction basis, and on a cumulative basis;
(c) provide a convenient means for customers to reduce the limits described in
paragraph (b) or to opt for MFA; and
(d) provide its customers with adequate notice of the safeguards set out in
paragraphs (a) to (c).

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
9.

48 of 80

A financial institution must offer to its customer a robust cryptographic key-based
authentication41 such as digital certificate or passwordless as an alternative to
existing password based authentication method to mitigate the risk of credential
of password being compromised or stolen. The enrolment of this method must
be subject to robust verification and resilient against cyber threats and fraud
techniques.

41 Cryptographic-key-based authentication is a method used to verify the identity of a user or system

through the use of cryptographic keys, typically involving a challenge-response handshake to prove
one’s identity.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

49 of 80

Appendix 4 Control Measures for Mobile Applications and Devices
1.

A financial institution that offers digital services must be aware of the risks
associated with mobile applications. To mitigate these risks, a financial institution
shall continuously assess and perform risk assessment to ensure that the threats
associated with mobile applications is addressed.

2.

A financial institution must ensure digital services involving sensitive customer
and counterparty information offered via mobile devices are adequately secured.
This includes the following:
(a) design the mobile application to operate in a secure and tamper-proof
environment42 within the mobile devices to protect users against cyber
threats such as malware and unauthorised access;
(b) prohibit mobile applications from storing customer and counterparty
information used for authentication with the application server such as PIN
and passwords. Authentication and verification of unique key and PIN must
be centralised at the host;
(c) activation of the mobile application must be subject to robust authentication
by the financial institution;
(d) ensure secure provisioning and deprovisioning process of mobile
application in the customer’s device;
(e) undertake proper due diligence processes to ensure the application
distribution platforms used to distribute the mobile application are reputable;
(f) ensure proper controls are in place to access, maintain and upload the
mobile application on application distribution platforms; and
(g) monitor the application distribution platforms to identify and address the
distribution of fake applications in a timely manner.

3.

A financial institution must also ensure the following measures are applied
specifically for applications running on mobile devices used by the financial
institution, appointed agents or intermediaries for the purpose of processing
customer and counterparty information:
(a) mobile device to be adequately hardened and secured;
(b) ensure the capability to automatically wipe data stored in the mobile devices
in the event the device is reported stolen or missing;
(c) comply with industry standards processed in card payments to mitigate risks
of unauthorised data access, identity theft and fraud43;
(d) enforce masking of sensitive customer and counterparty information when
displayed on mobile devices; and
(e) limit the storage of customer and counterparty information for soliciting
insurance and takaful businesses in mobile devices to 30 days.

42 Such as have not been compromised, jailbroken or rooted.
43 This includes risks associated with malwares that enable keystroke logging, PIN harvesting and other

malicious forms of customer and counterparty information downloading.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

50 of 80

Appendix 5 Control Measures on Cybersecurity
A financial institution must adopt robust control measures to enhance its network
resilience against cyber threats.
Part A: Network Security
1.

A financial institution must ensure technology networks are segregated into
multiple zones according to threat profile. Each zone shall be adequately
protected by various security devices including but not limited to firewall and
Intrusion Prevention System (IPS). This must include network for delivery of
digital services and wireless networks as well.

2.

A financial institution must ensure security controls for server-to-server external
network connections include the following:
(a) use PKI-based authentication method or equivalent alternatives;
(b) use of secure tunnels such as Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Virtual
Private Network (VPN) IPSec; and
(c) deploying staging servers with adequate perimeter defences and protection
such as firewall, IPS and antivirus.

3.

A financial institution must ensure security controls for remote access to server
include the following:
(a) restrict access to only hardened and locked down end-point devices;
(b) use secure tunnels such as TLS and VPN IPSec;
(c) deploy ‘gateway’ server with adequate perimeter defences and protection
such as firewall, IPS and antivirus;
(d) close relevant ports immediately upon expiry of remote access; and
(e) implement multi-factor authentication (MFA) for all remote access sessions.

4.

A financial institution must ensure overall security controls are implemented
including the following:
(a) dedicated firewalls at all critical segments. All external-facing firewalls must
be deployed on High Availability (HA) configuration and “fail-close” mode
activated;
(b) IPS at all critical network segments with the capability to inspect and monitor
encrypted network traffic;
(c) web and email filtering systems such as web-application firewalls, webproxy, URL filtering, sandboxing features, spam filter and anti-spoofing
controls;
(d) end-point protection solution to detect and remove security threats such as
malware;
(e) enforce full hard disk encryption for all endpoints and systems;
(f) solution to mitigate advanced persistent threats including zero-day and
signatureless malware; and
(g) capture the full network packets to rebuild relevant network sessions to aid
forensics in the event of incidents.

5.

A financial institution must synchronise and protect the Network Time Protocol
(NTP) server against tampering.

6.

A financial institution must ensure its technology systems and infrastructure,
including critical systems outsourced to or hosted by third party service providers,

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

51 of 80

are adequately protected against all types of Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
attacks (including Domain Name Service (DNS) based, volumetric, protocol and
application layer attacks) through the following measures:
(a)
(b)

(c)

subscribing to DDoS mitigation services, which include automatic ‘clean
pipe’ services to filter and divert any potential malicious traffic away from
the network bandwidth; and
regularly assessing the capability of the provider to expand network
bandwidth on-demand including upstream provider capability, adequacy of
the provider’s incident response plan and its responsiveness to an attack;
and
implementing geolocation controls based on customer profile location, trend
or behaviours, in order to restrict access from unauthorised regions and
reduce exposure to malicious traffic.

Part B: Data Security
1.

A financial institution shall ensure that all data-at-rest of Personal Identifiable
Information (PII) and transaction data are securely protected and rendered
unreadable to unauthorised access through the implementation of robust
encryption mechanisms or equivalent capabilities.

2.

A financial institution must design internal control procedures and implement
appropriate technology in all applications and access points to enforce Data Loss
Prevention (DLP) policies and trigger any policy violations. The technology
deployed must cover the following:
(a) data in-use – data being processed by IT resources;
(b) data in-motion – data being transmitted on the network; and
(c) data at-rest – data stored in storage mediums such as servers, backup
media and databases.

3.

A financial institution must implement appropriate policies for the removal of data
on technology equipment, mobile devices or storage media to prevent
unauthorised access to data.

4.

A financial institution must establish a clear DLP strategy and processes in order
to ensure that proprietary and customer and counterparty information is identified,
classified and secured. At a minimum, a financial institution must (a) ensure that data owners are accountable and responsible for identifying and
appropriately classifying data;
(b) undertake a data discovery process prior to the development of a data
classification scheme and data inventory; and
(c) ensure that data accessible by third parties is clearly identified and policies
must be implemented to safeguard and control third party access. This
includes adequate contractual agreements to protect the interests of the
financial institution and its customers.

5.

A financial institution must ensure adequate security controls are in place to
safeguard against customer information breach (CIB)44, which include:

44 This is also applicable to the financial institution intermediaries as well as their third party service

providers.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
(a)

(b)
(c)
(d)

52 of 80

conducting continuous review to ensure that CIB does not occur in the IT
environments of the financial institution, its intermediaries, or third party
service providers. The financial institution shall also incorporate scanning
or screening of customer information into the scope of periodic security
assessments (e.g. penetration testing, red teaming, or other security
validation exercises) to detect accidental exposure of customer information
on financial institution’s systems;
enhancing cybersecurity operations to promptly detect and strengthen the
safeguards against CIB;
ensure that the scope of financial institutions' internal audit reviews
encompasses the management and security controls pertaining to CIB; and
conduct a thorough investigation to identify the technical root cause(s) of all
CIBs with appropriate action and consequence management to mitigate
recurrence.

Part C: Security Operations Centre (SOC)
1. A financial institution must ensure its SOC, has adequate capabilities for
proactive monitoring of its technology security posture. This shall enable the
financial institution to detect anomalous user or network activities, flag potential
breaches and establish the appropriate response supported by skilled
resources based on the level of complexity of the alerts. The outcome of the
SOC activities shall also inform the financial institution’s reviews of its
cybersecurity posture and strategy.
2. The SOC must be able to perform the following functions:
(a) adequate log collection and the implementation of an event correlation
engine with parameter-driven use cases such as Security Information and
Event Management (SIEM);
(b) incident coordination and response;
(c) vulnerability management;
(d) threat hunting;
(e) remediation functions including the ability to perform forensic artifact
handling, malware and implant analysis;
(f) provision of situational awareness to detect adversaries and threats
including threat intelligence analysis and operations and monitoring
Indicators of Compromise (IoCs). This includes advanced behavioural
analysis to detect signature-less and file-less malware and to identify
anomalies that may pose security threats including at endpoints and
network layers; and
(g) has a well-documented and standardized playbook that covers common
and plausible cyber threat scenarios, such as ransomware attacks.
3. A financial institution must ensure that the SOC provides monthly threat
assessment report, which shall include, at a minimum, the following:
(a) trends and statistics of cyber events and incidents categorised by type of
attacks, target and source IP addresses, location of data centres and
criticality of applications; and
(b) intelligence on emerging and potential threats including Tactics, Techniques
and Procedures (TTP).
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

53 of 80

4. A financial institution must subscribe to reputable threat intelligence services to
identify emerging cyber threats, uncover new cyber-attack techniques and
support the implementation of countermeasures.
5. A financial institution must ensure the following:
(a) the SOC is located in a physically secure environment with proper access
controls;
(b) the SOC operates on a 24x7 basis with disaster recovery capability to
ensure continuous availability; and
(c) the SOC has a holistic and end-to-end view of the financial institution’s
infrastructure including internal and external facing perimeters.
Part D: Vulnerability Assessment and Penetration Test (VAPT)
1. A financial institution must establish standard operating procedures (SOP) for
VAPT activities to continuously identify vulnerabilities, assess potential risks
and remediate the identified gaps. The SOP must outline the relevant control
measures including but not limited to ensuring that the activities of external
penetration testers are within the defined scope and are always subject to
continuous oversight, validating the event logs and ensuring data purging.
2. A financial institution must perform a quarterly vulnerability assessment of
external and internal network components that support all critical systems.
3. A financial institution must conduct annual intelligence-led penetration tests on
its internal and external network infrastructure, critical systems as well as digital
services including web, mobile and all external-facing applications. The test
shall reflect extreme but plausible cyber-attack scenarios based on emerging
and evolving threat scenarios. A financial institution must engage suitably
accredited penetration testers and service providers to perform this function.
4. In addition to the periodic testing, a financial institution must also conduct
intelligence-led penetration tests prior to introducing new systems for the new
products or services to ensure the IT infrastructure is not accidently exposed
due to unchecked network configuration.
5. A financial institution must ensure the outcome of the penetration testing
exercise is properly documented and escalated in a timely manner to senior
management to identify and monitor the implementation of relevant remedial
actions.
6. A financial institution must undertake an independent compromise assessment
on the technology infrastructure of its critical systems at least once every three
years and ensure the results of such assessments are escalated to senior
management and the board in a timely manner. The financial institution may
leverage their group-level cyber risk management functions to support this
requirement.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

54 of 80

Part E: Application Programming Interface (API) Security
1. A financial institution must ensure that the level of API security implemented is
commensurate with the potential risks involved. At a minimum, the financial
institution is required to implement the following measures to mitigate
cybersecurity risks associated with APIs:
(a)
(b)
(c)

(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)

implement and maintain a centralised API inventory. The inventory must
comprehensively encompass identification, classification and prioritisation
of all associated API connections and dependencies;
ensure availability of API service by designing APIs to be scalable for
handling high level of traffic and implementing measures to mitigate denial
of service attacks;
undertake secure coding practices during API development, which shall
include but not be limited to validating security of third party code and
libraries, implementing robust error handling, input validation and
appropriate security headers;
employ robust encryption standards and effective key management
controls;
deploy anti brute-force mechanisms, including but not limited to rate
limiting, account lockout, and others;
implement strong and robust authorisation and authentication protocols that
commensurate with the risks presented by the APIs;
consider utilizing an API gateway to manage access, authentication, and
authorization of the APIs;
conduct periodic security assessments on APIs, including penetration
testing and static / dynamic security testing;
continuous monitoring for APIs to ensure visibility into the utilization and
performance of the APIs, for prompt identification and detection of potential
suspicious activities; and
establish process to effectively revoke access token or API keys in the
event of a compromise.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

55 of 80

Appendix 6 Criteria for Simplified Notification for IT Services Enhancements
Guiding principles for simplified notification
1. Where the enhancement does not result in:
(a) any introduction of new technology to the institution or industry;
(b) any material changes in application architecture or network design (e.g.
changes to cybersecurity tools, add-on features to existing digital
services channel or existing approved platform such as loan
applications, new non-complex activity e.g. chatbot); or
(c) the transmission of confidential or sensitive data (e.g. motor underwriting
engine by third party for calculation of motor premium).
2. Service expansion leveraging approved website / mobile application for
digital services within financial group.
3. Integration with IT services operated by third party service providers that are
subject to regulation by local or foreign authorities (“regulated entities”).
Non-exhaustive list of technical arrangements for participation with regulated
entities
(a) IT services operated by the Bank (e.g. RENTAS).
(b) IT services operated by institutions regulated by the Bank such as:
(i) Payment services of approved payment system operators and
registered merchant acquirers (e.g. Real-time Retail Payments
Platform);
(ii) Financial services operated by approved participants in the
Financial Technology Regulatory Sandbox;
(iii) Remittance services (e.g. by Western Union, Merchantrade,
Paypal); and
(iv) approved e-money issuers.
(c) Telecommunication services regulated by the Malaysian Communications
and Multimedia Commission (MCMC).
(d) Participation in investment services and schemes regulated by local
authorities:
(i) Investment services approved by Securities Commission (e.g. Digital
Investment Management);
(ii) Regulated pilgrimage fund (e.g. Tabung Haji); or
(iii) Approved investment funds (e.g. Amanah Saham National Berhad,
Skim Simpanan Pendidikan Nasional).
(e) IT services provided by the Government of Malaysia, including those
operated by the appointed third party service providers (e.g. e-invoicing by
the Lembaga Hasil Dalan Negeri, MyEG, Financial Link, Rexit, Bestinet, etc).
(f) IT services provided by third party service providers regulated by
international regulatory authorities e.g. SWIFT.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

56 of 80

Appendix 7 Risk Assessment Report and Supervisory Expectations on External
Party
Part A: Risk Assessment Report
Section 1: Financial Institution
Name of Financial Institution
Mailing address
Type of digital services / cloud
service / emerging technology

New / Enhancement

Description of the digital services
/ cloud service / emerging
technology

Key contact personnel
Email address
Phone number
Section 2: External Service Provider
Name of company
SSM registration number
Mailing address
Engagement period
Key contact personnel
Email address
Phone number
Section 3: Detail of application
Overview of the application i.e.
business case, target segment of
demographic and end-user, etc.

(Please keep the response below 200 words.
Additional information may be provided as
supporting documents)

Describe the technology used to
support the product, service or
solution

(Please keep the response below 200 words.
Additional information may be provided as
supporting documents)

Section 4: Technology risk assessment
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology
Technology risk assessment
shall provide assurance on the
effectiveness of technology risk
control and mitigation performed
by the financial institution in
meeting expectations outlined in
Part D of this Appendix and
paragraph 17.1 (for cloud
services and emerging
technology).
Section 5: Quality assurance
Overall recommendation

Section 6: Authorised signatory
Signature

Name
Designation
Date

Issued on: 28 November 2025

57 of 80

Risk Management in Technology

58 of 80

Part B: Format of Confirmation
Name of Financial Institution……………………………………………………………
As Chairman of the board of directors / designated board-level committee / CISO /
designated senior management officer * of [name of Financial Institution], I confirm that
–
1.
2.

3.

4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

digital services / cloud service / emerging technology * is consistent with the
bank’s / insurer’s / takaful operator’s * strategic and business plans;
the board of directors / senior management * understand and are ready to
assume the roles and responsibilities stated in Bank Negara Malaysia’s policy
document on Risk Management in Technology and are also apprised of all
relevant provisions in the FSA, IFSA and DFIA and other relevant legislation,
guidelines and codes of conduct;
risk management process related to digital services / cloud service / emerging
technology * is subject to appropriate oversight by the board of directors and
senior management;
appropriate security measures to address digital services / cloud service /
emerging technology * security concerns are in place;
customer support services and education related to digital services / cloud
service / emerging technology * are in place;
performance monitoring of digital services / cloud service / emerging technology
* products, services, delivery channels and processes has been established;
digital services / cloud service / emerging technology * is included in the
contingency and business resumption plans;
there are adequate resources to support the offering of digital services / cloud
service / emerging technology * business; and
the systems, procedures, security measures, etc. relevant to sound operations
of digital services / cloud service / emerging technology * will constantly be
reviewed to keep up with the latest changes.

Signature : ………………………………
Name : …………………………………..
Date : ………………………..…………..
* (delete whichever is not applicable)

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

59 of 80

Requirements on External Party Assurance
Part C: Financial Institutions are required to provide an external assurance
1.

The assurance shall be conducted by an independent external service provider
(ESP) engaged by the financial institution.

2.

The independent ESP must understand the proposed services, the data flows,
system architecture, connectivity as well as its dependencies.

3.

The independent ESP shall review the comprehensiveness of the risk
assessment performed by the financial institution and validate the adequacy of
the control measures implemented or to be implemented.

4.

The Risk Assessment Report (as per Part D in Appendix 7) shall state among
others, the scope of review, risk assessment methodology, summary of findings
and remedial actions (if any).

5.

The Risk Assessment Report shall confirm there is no exception noted based on
the prescribed risk areas (Negative attestation).

6.

The financial institution shall provide the Risk Assessment Report accompanied
by the relevant documents.

Part D: Minimum controls to be assessed by the independent External Service
Provider, where applicable
1.

The independent ESP assessment of security requirements shall include the
following key areas:
(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)

2.

access control;
physical and environmental security;
operations security;
communication security;
information security incident management; and
information security aspects of business continuity management.

For online transactions and services, a financial institution has implemented the
following:
(a) adequate measures to authenticate customer identity and ensure legitimate
transaction authorisation by the customer, including(i) measures to prevent session takeover or man-in-the-middle attacks;
(ii) internal controls must be in place to prevent compromise of relevant
internal systems / application / database;
(iii) where appropriate, apply multi-level authentication, out of band
protocol and real-time verification;
(iv) secure session handling functions and authentication databases; and
(v) ensure strong password and cryptographic implementation
(recognised algorithm with reasonable key strength);
(b)

adequate measures for transaction authentication that promotes nonrepudiation and establishes accountability(i) mechanism exists to ensure proof of origin, content as well as the
integrity of the message;
(ii) chosen channel to deliver transaction is secure;

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

60 of 80

(iii)

mechanism exists to alert the user on certain type of transactions for
further authentication; and
(iv) establish mutual authentication or appropriate use of digital
certification;
(c)

segregation of duties and access control privilege for systems, databases
and applications(i) implement dual control where applicable;
(ii) controls exist to detect and prevent unauthorised access to relevant
resources / devices;
(iii) authorisation database must be tamper-resistant; and
(iv) periodic review of privileged users;

(d)

adequate measures to protect data integrity of transactions and information:
(i) implementation of end-to-end encryption for external communication;
(ii) implementation of multi-layer network security and devices;
(iii) absence of single point of failures in network architecture;
(iv) conduct network security assessment / penetration test to identify
vulnerabilities;
(v) establish audit trail capabilities;
(vi) preserve the confidentiality of information;
(vii) use of stronger authentication for higher risk transactions; and
(viii) timely notification to customers that is sufficiently descriptive of the
nature of the transaction; and

(e)

adequate measures to mitigate associated risks of using electronic mobile
devices to perform online transactions, which shall include the following:
(i) application is running on secure mobile operating system versions;
(ii) application is not running on compromised devices;
(iii) conduct penetration test to identify and rectify potential vulnerability;
(iv) secure end-to-end communication between the device and host;
(v) sensitive information is not stored on mobile devices;
(vi) user is notified of successful transactions;
(vii) user is notified of suspicious transactions;
(viii) continuous monitoring and takedown of fake applications in
application distribution platforms;
(ix) controls over the uploading of application-to-application distribution
platforms;
(x) a unique code is generated per transaction; and
(xi) timely expiry of the transaction code.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

61 of 80

Appendix 8 IT and Cyber Risks Associated with Third Party Service Providers
1.

Operational performance and capacity (including staff competency and bench
strength to mitigate key-man risks, system infrastructure reliability and IT
operation management for service quality, strong recovery and resumption
capability for business continuity).

2.

Security requirements to mitigate information security risks relating to secure
handling of confidential information pertaining to the financial institution, its
customers or counterparty during transmission, process or storage of such
information(a) security governance;
(b) IT asset management and protection against evolving cyber threats. This
includes ensuring the storage of its data is at least logically segregated
from the other clients of the third party service provider;
(c) secure system development lifecycle;
(d) physical security;
(e) personnel security;
(f) access management; and
(g) incident management.

3.

Cyber supply chain risks:
(a) vetting of personnel;
(b) vetting of third party or open source software
interdependence;
(c) third party risk management for key sub-contractors; and
(d) concentration and geopolitical risk.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

and

system

Risk Management in Technology

62 of 80

Appendix 9 Guidance on Emerging Technologies
1.

As the landscape of emerging technology is dynamic and evolving, a
financial institution shall ensure technology risk management framework
(TRMF) is effective in monitoring the build-up of risks at the enterprise level
arising from the use of new technologies. A financial institution shall provide
clarity in its governance arrangement relating to new technologies as follows:
(a) appropriate level of caution, factoring the unintended consequences
such as fairness, ethics, legal liability exposures and frictions to
vulnerable customers in the risk assessment and tolerance level;
(b) acceptance criteria for introduction of new technology and reporting
structure and oversight mechanism to uphold accountability throughout
the lifecycle of adoption;
(c) enhancement of technology and cybersecurity operation controls to
mitigate attendant risks; and
(d) evaluation and improvement of operating control effectiveness on ongoing basis.

2.

A financial institution must only allow the use of emerging technology in a
production environment when, at a minimum, the following requirements are
met:
(a) IT system using the new technology is adequately tested to meet the
service quality, resiliency, and information security objectives of the
institution with residual risk that remains within the financial institution’s
risk tolerance level;
(b) availability of industry standards and best practices to effectively test the
operation risk controls and cyber defence. Where this cannot be met,
additional margin of conservatism shall be applied in the risk
assessment and the scope of provision to customers;
(c) the financial institution must be prepared to suspend the use of
emerging technology applications when extreme events such as
adversarial attacks arise;
(d) the financial institution must implement regular monitoring to assess
consistency in the quality of the solution, security and compliance,
enabling timely identification and mitigation to any emerging risks or
issues; and
(e) the financial institution must disclose to users that emerging technology
is utilized in the system, providing adequate information about
associated risks to enable them to make an informed decision before
using the service.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

63 of 80

Appendix 10 Key Risks and Control Measures for Cloud Services
This appendix provides additional guidance to financial institutions for the assessment
of common key risks and considerations of control measures when financial institutions
adopt public cloud for critical systems. The guidance is broadly applicable across
various cloud service models and financial institutions is expected to apply a risk-based
approach in implementing the guidance.
The guidance consists of two (2) parts:
•

•

Part A: Cloud governance – describes the considerations governing the cloud
usage policy, and technology skills capacity to implement cloud services
securely and effectively.
Part B: Cloud design and control – describes the considerations related to
designing robust cloud infrastructure and in operationalising the cloud
environment. This places emphasis on cloud architecture, cloud application
delivery model, high velocity software development, user access management,
data protection, key management, cloud backup and recovery, business
continuity management and cybersecurity management.

Part A: Cloud Governance
A financial institution should ensure robust cloud governance processes are
established prior to cloud adoption and are subject to on-going review and continuous
improvement. This should cover the following areas:
1. Cloud risk management
(a) The board of a financial institution is expected to promote and implement sound
governance principles throughout the cloud service lifecycle in line with the
financial institution’s risk appetite to ensure safety and soundness of the
financial institution.
(b) The senior management of a financial institution is expected to develop and
implement a cloud risk management framework that integrates with existing
outsourcing risk management framework, technology risk management
framework (TRMF) and cyber resilience framework (CRF), for the board’s
approval, proportionate to the materiality of cloud adoption in its business
strategy, to assist in the identification, monitoring and mitigating of risks arising
from cloud adoption.
(c) Common cloud service models45 are Software-as-a-Service (SaaS), Platformas-a-Service (PaaS), and Infrastructure-as-a-Service (IaaS), wherein each
presents a different set of capabilities offered to the financial institution as the
cloud consumer, and hence a different set of shared responsibilities. In view of
this, the cloud risk management framework of the financial institution should:

45 Cloud service models consist of SaaS, PaaS and IaaS. Refer the Special Publication 800-145 on

Definition of Cloud Computing issued by the National Institute of Standards and Technology, U.S.
Department of Commerce.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

64 of 80

i) be an integral part of the financial institution’s enterprise risk management
framework (ERM);
ii) be tailored to the cloud service models, both currently in use or being
considered for use; and
iii) specify the scope of the financial institution’s responsibility under each
shared responsibility model, as the associated risks may vary.
(d) A financial institution is responsible for the protection of data stored in cloud
irrespective of cloud service models and the cloud service providers. Therefore,
the financial institution’s understanding of the specific details of the cloud
arrangement, particularly what is or is not specified in the terms of the contract
with the cloud service providers is essential.
(e) Regardless of the cloud arrangement with cloud service providers, the onus
remains on the financial institution to satisfy the Bank that it is protecting
customer information and ensuring service reliability.
(f) The use of cloud services may represent a paradigm shift in technology
operation management as compared to on-premises IT infrastructure. Business
processes may change and internal controls on compliance, business
continuity, information and data security may be overlooked due to the ease of
subscribing to cloud services. Therefore, the cloud risk management framework
should also clearly articulate the accountability of the financial institution’s
board and senior management, and the process involved in approving and
managing cloud service usage, including the responsibility of key functions
across the enterprise in business, IT, finance, legal, compliance and audit, over
the lifecycle of cloud service adoption.
(g) As the cloud landscape rapidly evolves, a financial institution`s cloud risk
management framework should undergo periodic review (at least once every
three years to ensure its adequacy and effectiveness to manage new service
models over time), or immediately upon any major cybersecurity incidents
involving the cloud services.
2. Cloud usage policy
(a) The financial institution’s senior management is expected to develop and
implement internal policies and procedures that articulate the criteria for
permitting or prohibiting the hosting of information assets on cloud services,
commensurate with the level of criticality of the information asset and the
capabilities of the financial institution to effectively manage the risks associated
with the cloud arrangement.
(b) A financial institution is expected to expand the scope of its current technology
assets inventory to include critical systems hosted on the cloud services, with
a clear assignment of ownership, and to be updated upon deployment and
changes of IT assets to facilitate timely recalibration of cybersecurity posture in
tandem with an evolving threat landscape. Having visibility on the latest view of

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

65 of 80

the technology asset would enable effective triaging, escalation and response
to information security incidents.
(c) A financial institution should regularly review and update the cloud usage policy
at least once every three years. However, where any material changes arise,
including but not limited to adoption of new cloud service deployment model, or
adoption of cloud service for IT systems with higher degree of criticality, the
financial institution should review and update its cloud usage policy
immediately.
3. Due diligence
Due diligence on the prospective cloud service providers should be risk-based and
conducted to a level of scrutiny that is commensurate with the criticality of the
information and technology assets to be hosted on the cloud in compliance with
relevant requirements and guidance as stipulated in the Third Party Service Provider
Management section of this policy document and paragraphs 9, 10 and 11 in the
Bank’s Outsourcing policy document (Outsourcing process and management of risks,
Outsourcing outside Malaysia, Outsourcing involving cloud services).46
4. Access to cloud service providers’ certifications
A financial institution should review their cloud service providers’ certifications prior to
entering into any cloud arrangement or contract with such cloud service providers. At
a minimum, a financial institution should:
(a) Seek assurance that the cloud service provider continues to be compliant with
relevant legal, or regulatory requirements as well as contractual obligations and
assess the cloud service provider’s action plans for mitigating any noncompliance; and
(b) Obtain and refer to credible independent external party reports of the cloud
platforms when conducting risk assessments. The financial institution’s risk
assessment should address all the requirements and guidance as stipulated in
the Cloud Services section of this policy document and paragraph 11 of the
Bank’s policy document on Outsourcing which sets out provisions on
outsourcing involving cloud services.
5. Contract management
A financial institution should set out clearly and where relevant, measurable,
contractually agreed terms and parameters on the information security and operational
standards expected of the cloud service providers. Such contract terms and
parameters should be aligned with the financial institution’s business strategy,
information security policies and regulatory requirements.

46 Or the relevant paragraphs in the policy documents applicable for eligible e-money issuer, non-bank

registered merchant acquirer, intermediary remittance institution and operator of designated payment
system.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

66 of 80

(a) The terms of the contracts between the financial institution and cloud service
providers should address the risks associated with cloud services and third
party service providers;
(b) Jurisdiction risk may arise because cloud service providers operate regionally
or globally in nature and may be subject to the laws and regulatory requirements
of its home country, the location of incorporation, and the country where the
client receives the service. Therefore, a financial institution should:
i) identify and address potential jurisdiction risks by adopting appropriate
mitigating measures, where practically possible, to ensure the use of cloud
services does not impair its ability to comply with local law and regulatory
requirements; and
ii) understand the scope of local customer protection legislation and
regulatory requirements as well as to ensure that the financial institution
receives adequate protection and recourse for the benefit of its customers,
in the event of a data breach or fulfilment of a legal data request by the
cloud service provider;
(c) A financial institution should assess the potential impact and formalise
arrangements with cloud service providers to comply with local laws and
regulatory requirements for incident investigation and law enforcement
purposes. This would include adhering to data retention requirements and data
access procedural arrangements to ensure the confidentiality and privacy of the
customers are protected; and
(d) The provision of cloud services by the primary cloud service provider may
interconnect with multiple layers of other fourth party service providers (such as
sub-contractors), which could change rapidly. For example, customer data
could be leaked due to exposure caused by fourth party service providers. To
mitigate the risks associated with such fourth party service providers, financial
institutions should:
(i) understand the scope of customer information shared across the supply
chain and ensure that relevant information security controls can be legally
enforced by the financial institution; and
(ii) ensure Service Level Agreement (SLA) negotiations and contractual terms
cover the performance matrix, availability, and reliability of services in
order to ensure that the cloud service providers agree and are formally
aligned on the requirements and standard of cloud services provided. In
addition, cloud service providers should be accountable to the financial
institution for the SLA, performance matrix, availability and reliability of
cloud services rendered by its service providers (i.e. sub-contractors).
6. Oversight over cloud service providers
A financial institution should ensure effective oversight over cloud service providers
taking into account the fact that the cloud service providers may engage subcontractor(s) to provide cloud services. This includes, at a minimum, the following:
(a) establish and define a continuous monitoring mechanism with alignment to the
enterprise outsourcing risk management framework (or equivalent) to ensure
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

67 of 80

adherence to the agreed SLA, compliance of the cloud service provider with any
applicable legal and regulatory requirements and resilience of outsourced
technology services on on-going basis;
(b) identify, assign and document the key responsibilities within the financial
institution for continuous monitoring of cloud service providers to ensure
accountabilities are clearly defined;
(c) perform assessments of the outsourcing arrangement involving cloud service
providers periodically in accordance with the financial institution’s internal policy
to achieve business resilience with emphasis on data security and ensure
prompt notification to the Bank of the developments that may result in material
impact to the financial institution (such as jurisdiction risks for data hosted
overseas due to evolving foreign legislation and geopolitical development) in
line with the Bank’s policy document on Outsourcing, in particular, provisions
relating to outsourcing of cloud services outside Malaysia including paragraphs
9, 10 and 11 of the Outsourcing policy document; and
(d) promptly review or re-perform risk assessment upon any material changes in
cloud risk profile such as jurisdiction risks for data hosted overseas due to
evolving foreign legislation and geopolitical development.
7. Skilled personnel with knowledge on cloud services
(a) The adoption of cloud services requires commensurate changes to the financial
institution’s internal resources and process capabilities. In this regard, a
financial institution should:
i) equip its board and senior management with appropriate knowledge to
conduct effective oversight over the cloud adoption; and
ii) ensure its IT and security operations or relevant personnel are
appropriately skilled in the areas of cloud design, migration, security
configurations, including administrative, monitoring and incident response;
(b) The effective management of cloud services is not purely the responsibility of
the financial institution’s IT function. Therefore, a financial institution should
ensure relevant internal resources in business operations, finance,
procurement, legal, risk and compliance are also adequately skilled and
engaged to manage the change in risk profile arising from cloud adoption. This
should also enable financial institutions to respond effectively to operational
incidents;
(c) A financial institution should equip internal audit and personnel undertaking the
risk management and compliance functions with relevant cloud computing and
cloud security skills to be able to verify the effectiveness of the information
security controls in alignment with the financial institution’s cloud usage policy
and information security objectives;
(d) A financial institution should ensure that its staff receive adequate training to
understand their responsibilities in complying with internal cloud usage policies
and are prepared to effectively respond to a range of security incident scenarios
developed on a risk-based approach; and
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

68 of 80

(e) A financial institution should expand the scope of the formal consequence
management process to govern the use of cloud services to ensure the cloud
usage policy is effectively enforced given that cyber hygiene is critical to ensure
the continued security of cloud service usage.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

69 of 80

Part B: Cloud Design and Control
A financial institution should design its adoption of cloud services with a degree of
portability, scalability and fault tolerance that is proportionate to the materiality of the
cloud service to its business operation. It should also ensure robust operational
controls are in place to manage its ongoing cloud operations.
1. Cloud architecture
(a) A financial institution should design a robust cloud architecture and ensure such
design is in accordance with the relevant international standards for the
intended application.
(b) A financial institution is encouraged to adopt zero-trust principles to provide a
cyber resilient architecture by adopting an “assume breach” mindset, layering
defense-in-depth through micro-segmentation, “deny-by-default”, “least
privilege” access rights, and conducting deep inspection and continuous
validation where applicable.
(c) A financial institution should use the latest network architecture approach and
appropriate network design concept and solutions for managing and monitoring
granular network security and centralised network provision in managing
complexity of the cloud network environment.
(d) A financial institution should establish and utilise secure and encrypted
communication channels for migrating physical servers, applications, or data to
the cloud platforms.
(e) For financial institutions leveraging on their financial group’s cloud
infrastructure, the financial institutions should consider an appropriate level of
network segregation (e.g. logical tenant isolation in the shared environment of
the cloud) to mitigate the risk of cyber-attacks from propagating cross-border or
cross-entity and affecting the Malaysian financial institution’s operations.
(f) The increasing use of application programming interfaces (API) by financial
institution to interconnect with external application service providers could
achieve efficiency in new service delivery. However, this may increase the
cyber-attack surface, and any mismanagement may amplify the impact of an
information security incident. A financial institution should ensure its APIs are
subject to rigorous management and control mechanisms which include the
following:
i) APIs should be designed for service resilience to avoid the risk of single
points of failure and configured securely with appropriate access controls;
and
ii) APIs should be tracked and monitored against cyber-attacks with
adequate incident response measures and are de-commissioned on a
timely basis when no longer in use.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

70 of 80

2. Cloud application delivery models
(a) Cloud application delivery models may evolve to support faster time-to-market
in response to consumer demand. Currently, DevOps and Continuous
Integration/Continuous Development (CI/CD)47 are amongst the prevailing
practices and processes for cloud application delivery. For instance, the ability
to enforce segregation of duties for CI/CD where application developers may
require access to the management plane for service configuration. A financial
institution should ensure CI/CD pipelines are configured properly to enhance
security of automated deployments and immutable infrastructure48.
(b) A financial institution should continuously leverage enhanced cloud capabilities
to improve the security of the cloud services and financial institutions are,
among others, encouraged toi) adopt industry best practices such as infrastructure-as-code (IaC)49 to
automate the provisioning of IT infrastructure in a consistent, scalable and
secure manner; and
ii) use immutable infrastructure practices for deployment of services to
reduce the risk of failure by creating a new environment with the latest
stable version of the software. The on-going monitoring of the cloud
environment should include automating the detection of changes to
immutable infrastructure to improve compliance review and combat
evolving cyber-attacks.
(c) Where relevant, a financial institution should implement appropriate controls on
the IaC process to minimise the risk of misconfiguration and reduce the cyberattack surface. This includes the following measures that should be taken by
the financial institution:
i) conduct vulnerabilities scanning as part of IaC automation steps and
ensure issues are remediated prior to the provisioning of IT infrastructure;
ii) ensure virtual machine images (VMI) or container images of IaC templates
are trusted and digitally signed; and
iii) implement appropriate access control to prevent unauthorised changes to
IaC templates.

3. Virtualization and containerization management
The guidance provided in this paragraph is applicable to financial institutions which
use or plan to use PaaS and IaaS cloud service models only.

47 CI/CD is a set of methods that enables developers to deliver code changes more frequently using

automation.
48 Immutable infrastructure is an approach to managing and deploying infrastructure where components,
such as virtual servers and networks, are created once and then never modified. If a new version of a
service or application requires changes to the underlying infrastructure components, new instances of
those components are created and the old instances are replaced.
49 The process of managing and provisioning an organization’s IT infrastructure using machine-readable
configuration files, rather than employing physical hardware configuration or interactive configuration
tools - NIST Special Publication 800-172, U.S. Department of Commerce, February 2020.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

71 of 80

(a) A financial institution should ensure virtualization services are configured in line
with the prevailing guidance from the cloud service providers and industry best
practices, commensurate with the evolution of cloud computing technologies.
(b) A financial institution should ensure virtual machine and container images are
configured, hardened, and monitored appropriately. This includes the following:
i) use stable images and keep images up to date;
ii) store and use images from trusted repositories or registries;
iii) scan images for vulnerabilities, remediate any vulnerabilities prior running
in production;
iv) enforce “least privilege” access;
v) harden images based on industry best practices; and
vi) stored images are subjected to security monitoring from unauthorised
access and changes.
4. Change management
(a) A financial institution should establish a process to systematically assess and
take appropriate action to manage the impact of the releases by cloud service
providers in relation to existing infrastructure, network, upstream and
downstream systems to minimize the impact of any service disruption.
(b) A financial institution should ensure its existing change management process is
extended to cover cloud services where appropriate to promote effective and
secure system development. The escalation process and approving authority
should be clearly defined to ensure critical changes can be implemented and
risk of service disruptions are mitigated promptly.
(c) All critical changes deployed to the production environment should also be
timely applied across environments such as disaster recovery site or supported
cloud regions and availability zones where appropriate.
5. Cloud backup and recovery
(a) As part of an effective recovery capability, financial institutions should ensure
existing backup and recovery procedures are extended to cover cloud services,
which includes the following:
i) define and formalise backup and recovery strategy at the planning stage
of cloud adoption;
ii) conduct periodic reviews of the cloud service providers’ restoration and
recovery capabilities; and
iii) conduct testing of recovery strategy prior to deployment of the system.
(b) A financial institution should ensure backup and restoration procedures are
periodically tested to validate recovery capabilities. The frequency of backup
procedures should be commensurate with the criticality of the system and
recovery point objective (RPO) of the system. Remedial actions should be taken
promptly by the financial institution for unsuccessful backups.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

72 of 80

(c) A financial institution should ensure sufficient backup and recovery of virtual
machine and container including backup configuration settings (for IaaS and
PaaS, where relevant), which includes the following:
i) ensure the capability to restore a virtual machine and container at pointin-time50 as per the business recovery objectives; and
ii) make virtual machine and container images available in a way that would
allow the financial institution to replicate those images at alternate sites or
recovery sites51;
(d) A financial institution should assess the resilience requirements of the cloud
services and identify appropriate measures that commensurate with the
criticality of the system, to ensure service availability in the extreme adverse
scenarios. The financial institution should consider a risk-based approach and
progressively adopt appropriate mitigating controls to ensure service availability
and mitigate concentration risk. Amongst the viable options are:
i) leverage cloud services’ high availability and redundancy features to
ensure production data centres have redundant capacity in different
availability zones;
ii) achieve geographical redundancy by having data centres in different
geographical regions;
iii) adopt hybrid cloud (combination of on-premises and public cloud setup);
iv) establish back-up cloud service providers and identify appropriate
arrangement for porting of data and application to ensure timely service
resumption; and
v) adopt multi-cloud strategy, with the use of services from different cloud
service providers to mitigate concentration risks and geopolitical risks.
6. Interoperability and Portability
Interoperability standards for cloud services continue to evolve such that porting data,
related configuration and security logging across different cloud service providers may
be challenging. To facilitate the smooth process of interoperability and portability
between on-premise IT systems or alternate cloud service providers, financial
institutions are encouraged to(a) assess technical requirements for interoperability and portability prior to
entering into an agreement or arrangement with the cloud service providers to
avoid vendor lock-in;
(b) maintain a list of third party service providers and tools that are needed to
facilitate a smooth transition;
(c) ensure usage of standardized network and communication protocols for ease
of interoperability and portability with on-premise IT systems or alternate cloud
platforms;
Point-in-time refers to the ability to preserve and retrieve the state of a virtual machine or system at
a specific moment.
51
The alternate sites and recovery sites could either be in-house arrangements, or
available through agreement with third party recovery facility provider, or a combination of both options.
50

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

73 of 80

(d) ensure the use of common electronic data formats, where applicable, to ease
the movement of data between cloud service providers or to on-premises IT
system; and
(e) extend patch and EOL management to ensure technology solutions employed
remain effective and protected against system vulnerabilities.
7. Exit strategy
(a) A financial institution should establish a robust cloud exit strategy as part of its
cloud risk management framework to prepare for extreme adverse events such
as the unplanned failure or termination of cloud service providers. The exit
strategy should:
i) be developed during the cloud deployment planning phase rather than on
an ex-post basis;
ii) identify alternative cloud service providers (multi-cloud approach) or third
party solutions, or other such means to ensure no business recovery
objectives disruption or vendor lock-in;
iii) be properly documented including details on the various exit trigger
scenarios, roles and responsibilities, and sufficient resources to manage
exit plans and the transition activities; and
iv) be updated in a timely manner to reflect any material developments.
(b) A financial institution’s exit strategy should be supported by an appropriate and
proportionate exit plan that establishes the operational arrangements to
facilitate an orderly exit from an agreement or arrangement with cloud service
provider, including the following:
i) conduct impact assessment to determine potential costs, resources, and
timing implications of transferring cloud services to an alternative cloud
service providers or rely on the in-house arrangement at the financial
institution;
ii) identify appropriate methods to port data and applications to an alternative
arrangement;
iii) to obtain written confirmation or attestation from the cloud service
providers or independent external service providers that all sensitive data
has been securely deleted from the cloud service provider’s system upon
completion of the exit process; and
iv) conduct testing to validate the effectiveness of the exit plan, to obtain a
reasonable degree of assurance of its effectiveness.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

74 of 80

8. Cryptographic key management
(a) A financial institution should implement appropriate and relevant encryption
techniques to protect the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive data stored on
the cloud.
(b) A financial institution should ensure its policies and procedures on cryptography
are extended to cover cloud services where relevant, to promote the adoption
of strong cryptographic controls.
(c) Where appropriate and feasible, financial institutions should retain ownership
and control of the encryption keys (themselves or with an independent key
custodian), independent from the cloud service provider, to minimize the risk of
unauthorised access to the data hosted on the cloud.
(d) As the usage of cloud adoption increases, managing many encryption keys
used for protecting data has become more complex and may introduce new
challenges for financial institutions. A financial institution should adopt a
comprehensive and centralised approach to key management including the use
of centralised key management system that can handle generations, storage
and distribution of keys in a secure and scalable manner.
9. Access Controls
(a) The management plane is a key security difference between traditional
infrastructure and cloud computing where remote access is supported by
default. This access layer could be prone to cyber-attacks thereby
compromising the integrity of the entire cloud deployment. In view of this,
financial Institutions should ensure the use of strong controls for accessing the
management plane which may include the following:
i) allocate dedicated and effectively hardened endpoints and up to date
patching of software to access the management plane;
ii) implement “least privilege” and strong multi-factor authentication (MFA)
e.g. strong password, soft token, privileged access management tool and
maker-checker functions;
iii) employ granular entitlement allocation for privileged users;
iv) conduct continuous monitoring of the activities performed by privileged
users; and
v) ensure secure communication protocols are in place for accessing the
management plane. e.g. secure end-to-end communication channels,
whitelisting of IP addresses, etc.
(b) A financial institution should extend its user access matrix to cover user access
rights for both the financial institution and its cloud service providers where
relevant for the ongoing access to cloud services.
(c) A financial institution should ensure their tenant access controls to all hypervisor
management functions or administrative consoles for systems hosting
virtualized systems are effectively implemented in accordance with the
requirements and guidance under the Access Control section of this policy

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

75 of 80

document. These controls should mitigate the risk of any unauthorised access
to the hypervisor management functions and virtual machine.
(d) Point-to-point connections with cloud services may proliferate with the ease of
cloud adoption, resulting in fragmentation of identity and access management
and the risk of unsanctioned data being migrated to the cloud. In view of this,
rigorous planning is recommended for the design of identity and access
management as it is inherently complex. Financial institutions are encouraged
to:
i) where appropriate and commensurate with the size and complexity of the
cloud adoption, implement a federated52 approach for identity and access
management to mitigate risks of identities in cloud services being
disjointed from the internal identities, unauthorised access and to ease
user access management; and
ii) consider additional attributes in context-aware decisions for identity and
access management such as pattern of access to further mitigate the risks
associated with remote access.
10. Cybersecurity Operations
(a) A financial institution should ensure the governance and management of
cybersecurity operations is extended to cover cloud services, with appropriate
control measures to prevent, detect, and respond to cyber incidents in the cloud
environment to maintain the overall security posture of the institution.
(b) The interconnected cloud service supply chain could become a source of cyber
risk. A financial institution should ensure integrated monitoring and full visibility
of cloud services are established. This should include the following:
i) continuous monitoring of system communications between the cloud
service provider, on-premise IT systems and other service providers to
ensure the security perimeter is not breached; and
ii) ensuring that third party service providers, including those providing
ancillary functions, have adequate capabilities to monitor, detect and
respond to anomalous activities, with timely communication to the financial
institution of relevant cyber incidents.
(c) A financial institution should understand the segregation of responsibility in
security management, which varies across the cloud service models. A financial
institution should manage the sources of vulnerabilities appropriately including
by:
i) proactively seeking assurance of their cloud service providers to conduct
periodic VAPT on the cloud infrastructure to ensure tenant isolation and
overall security posture remains healthy; and
ii) understanding the cloud service provider’s VAPT policy for the financial
institution on cloud infrastructure for IaaS model given the varying degree
52 Federated approach for identity and access management is a process / arrangement between multiple

systems or enterprises that enables users to use the same identification data to access all related
networks.
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

76 of 80

of the financial institution’s access to the cloud environment and establish
a VAPT arrangement with cloud service providers upfront which
commensurate with the complexity of the cloud environment.
11. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)
(a) A financial institution should ensure that its DDoS mitigation service is
commensurate with the size and complexity of the cloud adoption.
(b) The risk of a single point of failure may surface when a financial institution
leverages solely on a cloud-based solution to mitigate DDoS attacks. As such,
a financial institution is encouraged to engage alternative DDOS mitigation
providers or establish circuit breakers to avoid service disruption when the main
DDOS mitigation provider is disrupted.
12. Data Loss Prevention (DLP)
(a) A financial institution should protect the data hosted in cloud services as
required under the Data Security of Appendix 5 of this policy document,
including the expansion of the endpoint footprint if the financial institution allows
its staff to use their own devices to access the sensitive data.
(b) As it becomes increasingly easy to distribute digital content to customers via
cloud services, a financial institution should adopt the appropriate digital rights
management mechanism to preserve the confidentiality of its proprietary and
customer information.
13. Security Operations Centre (SOC)
(a) A financial institution should understand the scope of cloud service providers’
responsibility for cybersecurity monitoring and adapt its SOC strategy and
processes to ensure proactive and holistic monitoring of its cybersecurity
posture. This adaptation should include the ability to effectively improve
cybersecurity telemetry and analysis to detect and respond to cyber threats.
(b) Where applicable, the responsibilities of cloud service providers with respect to
SOC operations should be formalised in the agreement or arrangement
between the financial institution and the cloud service providers, including the
retention period required for relevant logs needed for forensic purposes and the
right of the financial institution to access the logs for quick restoration as and
when needed, in accordance with the requirements and guidance under the
Access Control section and Part C of Appendix 5 of this policy document.
14. Cyber response and recovery
(a) A financial institution should enhance existing cyber crisis management policies
and procedures to remain in a state of readiness to respond to cyber threats in
a cloud environment.
(b) A financial institution should extend its Cyber Incident Response Plan (CIRP) to
include adverse scenarios that may affect cloud services and establish clear
Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

77 of 80

roles and responsibilities between the financial institution and cloud service
providers for incident response and remediation. The incident escalation
process and turnaround time should be established with cloud service providers
and periodically reviewed, to achieve an effective incident response.
(c) A financial institution should consider the following additional measures in the
development of its CIRP:
i) enhance its ability to detect security breach incidents to achieve effective
incident management, including the ability to detect data leakage on the
dark web;
ii) provide adequate assistance to customers in the event of a security breach
in view that the complexity of cloud arrangements and sophistication of
cyber-attacks often exceed the response range reasonably expected of
customers; and
iii) ensure CIRP is ready to manage cross-border incidents where the data
resides in a foreign jurisdiction.
(d) A financial institution should ensure that relevant Cyber Emergency Response
Team (CERT) members are conversant with the CIRP covering cloud services
to effectively activate the CIRP when incidents occur.
(e) A financial institution should extend its existing incident reporting requirements
to include cloud services.
(f) A financial institution should enter into agreements or arrangements with its
cloud service providers to conduct integrated business continuity testing and
cyber drill in accordance with the requirement on testing of disaster recovery
plan in paragraph 9.48 and 9.50 of the Bank’s policy document on Business
Continuity Management (BCM) and paragraphs relating to cyber response and
recovery under this policy document to test the effectiveness of the financial
institution’s CIRP and recovery plan.
(g) A financial institution should review its loss provision arrangements to ensure
its adequacy to cover cyber incidents in accordance with the requirement on
paragraph 11.17 of this policy document.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

78 of 80

Appendix 11 Fraud Detection Standards
A financial institution is required to adhere to the specified requirements, which include
carrying out financial transactions conducted via digital services for retail customer.
While compliance with the minimum standards is essential, a financial institution is
encouraged to exceed these standards to stay ahead of emerging threat. The financial
institution shall continuously upgrade and refine their fraud detection capability to
ensure it remains robust against the anticipated level of threat.
1.

A financial institution must establish detailed and comprehensive risk profiles for
each customer as a reference point when performing fraud detection based on
behavioural analysis of the financial institution’s customer and fraud profiles.
Examples of relevant factors to be considered may include:
(a) demographics information e.g. age, gender, race, occupation, salary,
language, etc;
(b) geographical information e.g. city, state, countries, IP address;
(c) historical transactional patterns e.g. monetary transfer amount, time of
transaction, velocity, new beneficiaries / favourite transfer; and
(d) behavioural patterns e.g. time taken to make transfer, typing speed, mouse
hovering pattern.

2.

A financial institution must be able to detect and block suspicious or fraudulent
transactions on a real-time basis based on individual customer risk profiles
established in accordance with paragraph 1 through the fraud risk analytics. At
minimum, the fraud risk analytics must include the parameters or indicators
outlined below:
(a) Access to or conduct of a deposit account by a customer for a period of time
following specific activities which could indicate elevated risk of identity theft
or fraud, such as:
i)
newly enrolled e-banking account;
ii)
activation of online banking access for existing customer;
iii)
registration of multi-factor authentication (MFA) method on a new
device;
iv)
increase in transaction limit;
v)
password reset;
vi)
change of personal information such as phone number, email, and
postal address;
vii)
registration of third party payee details (favourite accounts); and
viii) upliftment of fixed deposit accounts or linked investment / unit trust
accounts.
(b) Transaction patterns observed in a customer’s account, which could indicate
elevated risk of identity theft or fraud, such as:
i)
high volume of debits in a short period to new beneficiaries within a
day or next few days following such activities as specified in 2(a).
ii)
sudden change in transaction patterns (e.g. increases in frequency
or cumulative value over a short period, or large withdrawals

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

iii)

iv)
v)

vi)

vii)
viii)

79 of 80

resulting in low account balance inconsistent with the customer’s
normal transaction patterns);
activities that may be inconsistent with the customer’s risk profile or
history (e.g. transaction time, high debits from a previously inactive
account);
large deposit made into a newly opened deposit account and
withdrawn in a short period (e.g. within a few days);
transactions initiated from an unusual geographical location (not the
customer’s typical location) or consecutive transactions from
different locations within a short period of time;
transactions initiated from an account or device previously reported
for fraud by various sources of fraud intelligence (e.g. upon
investigation by any financial institution, report from customer or law
enforcement agencies, industry threat intel sharing, etc.);
transactions from an account previously inactive for a period of
time; and
transactions to suspected financial mules detected by the financial
institution or any other fraud repositories developed by the Bank,
the industry, or law enforcement agencies.

(c) Changes in a device fingerprint, such as the location, IP address, device
MAC, operating system and other device profile. This must include the ability
to detect and block attempts to defeat or bypass device fingerprinting
methodologies.
(d) Account takeover and identity fraud using advanced artificial intelligence
tools, techniques, and procedures to defeat or bypass the authentication
controls of digital services or contact centre.
(e) Higher risk scoring must be applied for vulnerable customers (e.g. senior
citizens, younger customers, previous victims of fraud, customers with lower
literacy on the safety of electronic banking or awareness level, etc).
(f) Changes in biometric credentials registered in a device, where biometric
technologies are solely used for financial transaction authentication
purposes. This includes the scenario where a mobile banking application
relies on the biometric verification function of the device, mobile operating
system, or a third party application.
3.

A financial institution must implement measures to promptly detect and terminate
hijacked sessions to prevent unauthorised access to customer accounts. The
financial institution shall notify customer on elevated cyber risk caused by the
presence of risky application (e.g. application downloaded outside official
distribution platforms or detected to contain security vulnerabilities).

4.

When customer’ online banking access is restricted, a financial institution must
promptly notify customer with appropriate guidance to enable customer to restore
access to their account subject to robust verification. To mitigate privacy

Issued on: 28 November 2025

Risk Management in Technology

80 of 80

concerns, the financial institution must seek consent from the customer prior to
effecting the customer device profiling.
5.

A financial institution must investigate suspicious transactions based on predetermined priority levels and conduct the necessary verification (such as callbacks or other effective methods) with the customer prior to releasing any flagged
transactions. To ensure acceptable customer experience, the financial institution
must notify the affected customer immediately upon the blocking of each
suspicious transaction (e.g. via SMS or secure app notification) and deploy
sufficient resources to contact the affected customer within 30 minutes of the
transaction, including during peak periods. The verification procedures must
consider and include ways to help detect circumstances where customer may be
responding under the influence or threat of fraudsters. The financial institution
must also establish a robust process to minimise risk in the event the customer
cannot be contacted due to their unavailability.

6.

A financial institution must ensure that its various touch points such as contact
centres and branches are easily accessible and sufficiently resourced to provide
customer with prompt advice or to connect customer with the fraud investigation
team, if necessary.

7.

A financial institution must continuously update its system to ensure fraud
detection rules remain effective to combat new fraud modus operandi via the
following:
(a) enhance its fraud detection rules promptly upon detection of new fraud
techniques that have evaded its fraud detection system. The enhancements
shall be timely upon being notified by its internal fraud team or upon receiving
such intelligence from external sources such as other financial institution,
industry group, public-private partnership and other intelligence sharing
platform; and
(b) review the effectiveness of its fraud detection parameters and thresholds in
a timely manner, taking into consideration recent typologies in relation to
fraudulent transactions and financial mule accounts, including new digital
fraud techniques and modus operandi in other jurisdictions.

8.

In order to effectively address the wide range of fraud alerts that can arise from
various fraud modus operandi and techniques, it is important to have clear and
detailed procedures for managing suspected fraud cases. Therefore, the financial
institution must develop a comprehensive fraud management playbook, as a
point of reference for the relevant staff to promptly identify, confirm, and respond
effectively to various scenarios. The playbook must be updated and validated at
least once a year, or more frequently if needed, to ensure it remains relevant in
the evolving fraud landscape. This includes reflecting insights from assessments
of confirmed fraud cases and lessons learnt from incidences in which the financial
institution was unable to detect the fraudulent activities or transactions.

Issued on: 28 November 2025

